THE TITAN'S CURSE 
Rick Riordan 
  ONE  
MY RESCUE OPERATION GOES VERY WRONG  
The Friday before winter break, my mom packed me an overnight bag and a few deadly 
weapons and took me to a new boarding school . We picked up my friends Annabeth and 
Thalia on the way. 
It was an eight-hour drive from New York to Bar Harbor, Maine. Sleet and snow 
pounded the highway. Annabeth, Thalia, and I hadn' t seen each other in months, but between 
the blizzard and the thought of what we were about to do, we were too nervous to talk much. 
Except for my mom. She talks more  when she's nervous. By the time we finally got to 
Westover Hall, it was getting dark, and she'd told Annabeth and Thalia every embarrassing 
baby story there was to tell about me. 
Thalia wiped the fog off the car window and peered outside . "Oh, yeah. This'll be fun." 
Westover Hall looked like an evil knight's castl e. It was all black stone, with towers and 
slit windows and a big set of wooden double doors.  It stood on a snowy cliff overlooking this 
big frosty forest on one side and th e gray churning ocean on the other. 
"Are you sure you don't want me to wait?" my mother asked. 
"No, thanks, Mom," I said. "I don't know how long it will take. We'll be okay." 
"But how will you get back ? I'm worried, Percy." 
I hoped I wasn't blushing. It was bad enough I had to depend on my mo m to drive me to 
my battles. 
"It's okay, Ms. Jackson." Annabeth smiled r eassuringly. Her blond hair was tucked into 
a ski cap and her gray eyes were the same colo r as the ocean. "We'll keep him out of trouble." 
My mom seemed to relax a little. She thinks  Annabeth is the most  levelheaded demigod 
ever to hit eighth grade. She's sure Annabeth often keeps me from getting killed. She's right, 
but that doesn't mean I have to like it. 
"All right, dears," my mom said. "D o you have everything you need?" 
"Yes, Ms. Jackson," Thalia said. "Thanks for the ride." 
"Extra sweaters? You have my cell phone number?" 
"Mom—" 
"Your ambrosia and nectar, Percy? And a golden drachma in case you need to contact 
camp?"  "Mom, seriously! We'll be fine. Come on, guys." 
She looked a little hurt, and I was sorry about th at, but I was ready to be out of that car. 
If my mom told one more story about how cute I looke d in the bathtub when  I was three years 
old, I was going to burrow into the snow and freeze myself to death. 
Annabeth and Thalia followed me outside. Th e wind blew straight th rough my coat like 
ice daggers. 
Once my mother's car was out of sight, Th alia said, "Your mom is so cool, Percy." 
"She's pretty okay," I admitted. "What about  you? You ever get in touch with your 
mom?" 
As soon as I said it, I wished I hadn't. Thal ia was great at giving evil looks, what with 
the punk clothes she always wears—the ripped-up army jacket, black leather pants and chain 
jewelry, the black eyeliner and those intense blue eyes. But th e look she gave me now was a 
perfect evil "ten." 
"If that was any of your business, Percy—" 
"We'd better get inside," Annabeth interrupted. "Grover will be waiting." 
Thalia looked at the castle and shivered. "You' re right. I wonder what he found here that 
made him send the distress call." 
I stared up at the dark towers of Westover Hall. "Nothing good," I guessed. 
The oak doors groaned open, and the three of us  stepped into the entr y hall in a swirl of 
snow. 
All I could say was, "Whoa." 
The place was huge. The walls were lined with battle flags and weapon displays: 
antique rifles, battle axes, and a bunch of other stuff. I mean, I knew Westover was a military 
school and all, but the decorations  seemed like overkill. Literally. 
My hand went to my pocket, where I kept my lethal ballpoint pen, Riptide. I could 
already sense something wrong in this place. Something dangerous. Thalia was rubbing her 
silver bracelet, her favorite ma gic item. I knew we were thinki ng the same thing. A fight was 
coming. 
Annabeth started to say, "I wonder where—" 
The doors slammed shut behind us. 
"Oo-kay," I mumbled. "Guess we'll stay awhile."  I could hear music echoing from the other e nd of the hall. It sounded like dance music. 
We stashed our overnight bags  behind a pillar and started down the hall. We hadn't gone 
very far when I heard footstep s on the stone floor, and a man and woman marched out of the 
shadows to intercept us. 
They both had short gray hair and black military-style uniforms with red trim. The 
woman had a wispy mustache, and the guy was clean-shaven, which seemed kind of 
backward to me. They both walked stiffly, like they had broomsticks taped to their spines. 
"Well?" the woman demanded. "What are you doing here?" 
"Um…" I realized I hadn't planned for this. I'd been so focused on getting to Grover and 
finding out what was wrong, I hadn't considered  that someone might question three kids 
sneaking into the school at night. We hadn't talk ed at all in the car about how we would get 
inside. I said, "Ma'am, we're just—" 
"Ha!" the man snapped, which made me jum p. "Visitors are not allowed at the dance! 
You shall be eee-jected !" 
He had an accent—French, maybe. He pronounced his J like in Jacques, He was tall, 
with a hawkish face. His nostrils flared when he  spoke, which made it really hard not to stare 
up his nose, and his eyes were two different co lors—one brown, one blue—like an alley cat's. 
I figured he was about to toss us into the snow, but then Thalia stepped forward and did 
something very weird. 
She snapped her fingers. The sound was sh arp and loud. Maybe it was just my 
imagination, but I felt a gust of wind ripple out from her ha nd, across the room. It washed 
over all of us, making the ba nners rustle on the walls. 
"Oh, but we're not visitors, si r," Thalia said. "We go to school here. You remember: I'm 
Thalia. And this is Annabeth and Percy. We're in the eighth grade." 
The male teacher narrowed his two-colore d eyes. I didn't know what Thalia was 
thinking. Now we'd probably get punished for lying and thrown into the snow. But the man 
seemed to be hesitating. 
He looked at his colleague. "Ms. Gottschalk, do you know these students?" 
Despite the danger we were in, I had to bite  my tongue to keep from laughing. A teacher 
named Got Chalk ? He had to be kidding. 
The woman blinked, like someone had just woken her up from a trance. "I… yes. I 
believe I do, sir." She frowned at us. "Annabeth. Thalia. Percy. What are you doing away 
from the gymnasium?" 
Before we could answer, I heard more foot steps, and Grover ra n up, breathless. "You 
made it! You—"  He stopped short when he saw the teachers. "Oh, Mrs. Gottschalk. Dr. Thorn! I, uh—" 
"What is it, Mr. Underwood?" said the man. His t one made it clear that he detested 
Grover. "What do you mean, they made  it? These students live here." 
Grover swallowed. "Yes, sir. Of course, Dr. Thorn. I just meant, I'm so glad they 
made… the punch for the dance! The punch is great. And they made it!" 
Dr. Thorn glared at us. I decided one of his eyes had to be fake. The brown one? The 
blue one? He looked like he wanted to pitch us  off the castle's highest tower, but then Mrs. 
Gottschalk said dreamily, "Yes, the punch is excellent. Now run along, all of you. You are not 
to leave the gymnasium again!" 
We didn't wait to be told twice. We left w ith a lot of "Yes, ma'ams" and "Yes, sirs" and 
a couple of salutes, just because it seemed like the thing to do. 
Grover hustled us down the hall in the direction of the music. 
I could feel the teachers' eyes on my back, but  I walked closely to Thalia and asked in a 
low voice, "How did you do that finger-snap thing?" 
"You mean the Mist? Hasn't Chiron shown you how to do that yet?" An uncomfortable lump formed in my thro at. Chiron was our head trainer at camp, but 
he'd never shown me anything like that. Why had he shown Thalia and not me? 
Grover hurried us to a door that had GYM written on the glass. Even with my dyslexia, 
I could read that much. 
"That was close!" Grover said. "Thank the gods you got here!" 
Annabeth and Thalia both hugged Gr over. I gave him a big high five. 
It was good to see him after so many months. He'd gotten a little taller and had sprouted 
a few more whiskers, but otherwise he looked like he always did when he passed for human—
a red cap on his curly brown hair to hide his goat horns, baggy jeans an d sneakers with fake 
feet to hide his furry legs and hooves. He wa s wearing a black T-shirt that took me a few 
seconds to read. It said WE STOVER HALL: GRUNT. I wasn't su re whether that was, like, 
Grover's rank or maybe just the school motto. 
"So what's the emergency?" I asked. 
Grover took a deep breath. "I found two." 
"Two half-bloods?" Thal ia asked, amazed. "Here?" 
Grover nodded. Finding one half-blood was rare enough. This year, Chir on had put the satyrs on 
emergency overtime and sent them all over the country, scouring school s from fourth grade  through high school for possible recruits. Thes e were desperate times. We were losing 
campers. We needed all the new fighters we co uld find. The problem was, there just weren't 
that many demigods out there. 
"A brother and a sister," he said. "They're ten and twelve. I don't know their parentage, 
but they're strong. We're running out of time, though. I need help." 
"Monsters?" 
One." Grover looked nervous. "He suspects. I don' t think he's positive ye t, but this is the 
last day of term. I'm sure he won't let them leave campus without findi ng out. It may be our 
last chance! Every time I try to get close to th em, he's always there, blocking me. I don't know 
what to do!" 
Grover looked at Thalia desperat ely. I tried not to feel upset by that. Used to be, Grover 
looked to me for answers, but Thalia had seniority. Not just because her dad was Zeus. Thalia 
had more experience than any of us with fending off monsters in the real world. 
"Right," she said. "These ha lf-bloods are at the dance?" 
Grover nodded. 
"Then let's dance," Thalia said. "Who's the monster?" 
"Oh," Grover said, and looked around nervously. "You just met him. The vice principal, 
Dr. Thorn." 
Weird thing about military schools: the kids go absolutely nuts wh en there's a special 
event and they get to be out of uniform. I guess it's because everything's so strict the rest of 
the time, they feel like they've got  to overcompensate or something. 
There were black and red balloons all over the gym floor, and guys were kicking them 
in each others faces, or trying to strangle each other with the crepe-paper streamers taped to 
the walls. Girls moved around in football huddles , the way they always  do, wearing lots of 
makeup and spaghetti-strap tops and brightly co lored pants and shoes that looked like torture 
devices. Every once in a while  they'd surround some poor guy like a pack of piranhas, 
shrieking and giggling, and when  they finally moved on, the guy would have ribbons in his 
hair and a bunch of lipstick gra ffiti all over his face. Some of the older gu ys looked more like 
me—uncomfortable, hanging out at the edges of the gym and trying to hide, like any minute 
they might have to fight for their lives . Of course, in my case, it was true… 
"There they are." Grover nodded toward a couple of younger ki ds arguing in the 
bleachers. "Bianca and Nico di Angela" 
The girl wore a floppy green cap, like she was trying to hide her face. The boy was 
obviously her little brother. They both had dark silky hair and olive skin, and they used their 
hands a lot as they talked. Th e boy was shuffling some kind of  trading cards. His sister  seemed to be scolding him about someth ing. She kept looking around like she sensed 
something was wrong. 
Annabeth said, "Do they… I mean, have you told them?" 
Grover shook his head. "You know how it is. That  could put them in more danger. Once 
they realize who they are, their scent becomes stronger." 
He looked at me, and I nodded. I'd never real ly understood what half-bloods "smell" 
like to monsters and satyrs, but I knew that your scent could get you killed. And the more 
powerful a demigod you became, the more you smelled like a monster's lunch. 
"So let's grab them and get out of here," I said. 
I started forward, but Thalia put her hand on my shoulder. The vice principal, Dr. 
Thorn, had slipped out of a doorway near the bleachers and was standing near the di Angelo 
siblings. He nodded coldly in our direction. His blue eye seemed to glow. 
Judging from his expression, I guessed Thorn hadn't been fooled by Thalia's trick with 
the Mist after all. He suspected who we were. He was just waiting to see why we were here. 
"Don't look at the kids," Thalia ordered. "We ha ve to wait for a chance to get them. We 
need to pretend we're not interested in them. Throw him off the scent." 
"How?" 
"We're three powerful half-bloods. Our pr esence should confuse him. Mingle. Act 
natural. Do some dancing. But keep an eye on those kids." 
"Dancing?" Annabeth asked. Thalia nodded. She cocked her ear to the music and made a face. "Ugh. Who chose the 
Jesse McCartney?" 
Grover looked hurt. "I did." 
"Oh my gods, Grover. That is so lame. Ca n't you play, like, Green Day or something?" 
"Green who?" 
"Never mind. Let's dance." "But I can't dance!" 
"You can if I'm leading," Thalia said. "Come on, goat boy." 
Grover yelped as Thalia grabbed his hand and led him onto the dance floor. 
Annabeth smiled.  "What?" I asked. 
"Nothing. It's just cool to have Thalia back." 
Annabeth had grown taller th an me since last summer, wh ich I found kind of disturbing. 
She used to wear no jewelry except for her Camp Half-Blood bead necklace, but now she 
wore little silver earrings shap ed like owls—the symbol of he r mother, Athena. She pulled off 
her ski cap, and her long blond hair tumbled down her shoulders. It made her look older, for 
some reason. 
"So…" I tried to think of something to say. Act natural , Thalia had told us. When you're 
a half-blood on a dangerous mission, what th e heck is natural? "Um, design any good 
buildings lately?" 
Annabeth's eyes lit up, the way they always did when she talked about architecture. "Oh 
my gods, Percy. At my new school, I get to take 3-D design as an elective, and there's this 
cool computer program…" 
She went on to explain how she'd designed this  huge monument that she wanted to build 
at Ground Zero in Manhattan. She talked about stru ctural supports and facades and stuff, and I 
tried to listen. I knew she wanted  to be a super architect when  she grew up—she loves math 
and historical buildings and all that—but I hardly understood a word she was saying. 
The truth was I was kind of di sappointed to hear that she liked her new school so much. 
It was the first time she'd gone to school in New York. I'd been hoping to see her more often. 
It was a boarding school in Brooklyn, and she and Thalia were both attending, close enough 
to Camp Half-Blood that Chiron could help if th ey got in any trouble. Because it was an all-
girls school, and I was going to MS-54 in Manhattan, I hardly ever saw them. 
Yeah, uh, cool," I said. "So you're stayi ng there the rest of the year, huh?" 
Her face got dark. "Well, maybe, if I don't—" 
"Hey!" Thalia called to us. She was slow dancing with Grover, who was tripping all 
over himself, kicking Thalia in the shins, and lo oking like he wanted to die. At least his feet 
were fake. Unlike me, he had an excuse for being clumsy. 
"Dance, you guys!" Thalia ordered. "Y ou look stupid just standing there." 
I looked nervously at Annabet h, then at the groups of girl s who were roaming the gym. 
"Well?" Annabeth said. 
"Um, who should I ask?" 
She punched me in the gut. "Me , Seaweed Brain." 
"Oh. Oh, right."  So we went onto the dance floor, and I looke d over to see how Th alia and Grover were 
doing things. I put one hand on Annabeth's hip, and she clasped my other hand like she was 
about to judo throw me. 
"I'm not going to bite," she told me. "Hone stly, Percy. Don't you guys have dances at 
your school?" 
I didn't answer. The truth was we did. But I'd never, like, actually danced  at one. I was 
usually one of the guys playi ng basketball in the corner. 
We shuffled around for a few minutes. I trie d to concentrate on little things, like the 
crepe-paper streamers and the punch bowl—anythi ng but the fact that Annabeth was taller 
than me, and my hands were sweaty and proba bly gross, and I kept stepping on her toes. 
"What were you saying earlier?" I aske d. "Are you having trouble at school or 
something?" 
She pursed her lips. "It's not that. It's my dad." 
"Uh-oh." I knew Annabeth had a rocky relatio nship with her father. "I thought it was 
getting better with you two. Is it your stepmom again?" 
Annabeth sighed. "He decided to move. Just wh en I was getting settled in New York, he 
took this stupid new job resear ching for a World War I book. In San Francisco !' 
She said this the same way she might say Fields of Punishment  or Hades's gym shorts . 
"So he wants you to move out there with him?" I asked.  
"To the other side of the count ry," she said miserably. "And half-bloods can't live in San 
Francisco. He should know that." 
"What? Why not?" 
Annabeth rolled her eyes. Maybe she thought I was kidding. "You know. It's right 
there !' 
"Oh," I said. I had no idea what she was talk ing about, but I didn't want to sound stupid. 
"So… you'll go back to living at camp or what?" 
"It's more serious than that, Percy. I…  I probably should tell you something." 
Suddenly she froze. "They're gone." 
"What?" I followed her gaze. The bleachers. The two half-blood kids, Bianca and Nico, were no 
longer there. The door next to the bleachers was wide open. Dr . Thorn was nowhere in sight.  "We have to get Thalia and Grover!" Anna beth looked around fran tically. "Oh, where'd 
they dance off to? Come on!" 
She ran through the crowd. I was about to follow when a mob of girls got in my way. I 
maneuvered around them to avoid getting the ri bbon-and-lipstick treatment, and by the time I 
was free, Annabeth had disappeared. I turned a full circle, looking for her or Thalia and 
Grover. Instead, I saw something that chilled my blood. 
About fifty feet away, lying on the gym floor, was a floppy gr een cap just like the one 
Bianca di Angelo had been wearing. Near it we re a few scattered trading cards. Then I caught 
a glimpse of Dr. Thorn. He was hurrying out a door at the opposite end of the gym, steering 
the di Angelo kids by the scruffs of their necks, like kittens. 
I still couldn't see Annabeth, but I knew sh e'd be heading the other way, looking for 
Thalia and Grover. 
I almost ran after her,  and then I thought, Wait . 
I remembered what Thalia had said to me in the entry hall, looking at me all puzzled 
when I asked about the finger-snap trick: Hasn't Chiron shown you how to do that yet ? I 
thought about the way Grover had turned to  her, expecting her to save the day. 
Not that I resented Thalia. She was cool. It wasn't her fault her dad was Zeus and she 
got all the attention… Still, I didn't need to run after her to solve every problem. Besides, 
there wasn't time. The di Angelos were in danger. They might be long gone by the time I 
found my friends. I knew monsters . I could handle this myself 
I took Riptide out of my poc ket and ran after Dr. Thorn. 
The door led into a dark hallway. I heard soun ds of scuffling up ahead, then a painful 
grunt. I uncapped Riptide. 
The pen grew in my hands until I held a br onze Greek sword about three feet long with 
a leather-bound grip. The blade glowed faintly, ca sting a golden light on the rows of lockers. 
I jogged down the corridor, but when I got to  the other end, no one was there. I opened 
a door and found myself back in the main entry hall. I was completely turned around. I didn't 
see Dr. Thorn anywhere, but there on the opposite side of the room were the di Angelo kids. 
They stood frozen in horr or, staring right at me. 
I advanced slowly, lowering the tip of my  sword. "It's okay. I'm not going to hurt you." 
They didn't answer. Their eyes were full of fear. What was wrong with them? Where 
was Dr. Thorn? Maybe he'd sensed the presence of Riptide and retreated. Monsters hated 
celestial bronze weapons. 
"My name's Percy," I said, trying to keep my voice level. "I'm going to take you out of 
here, get you somewhere safe."  Bianca's eyes widened. Her fists clenched. On ly too late did I re alize what her look 
meant. She wasn't afraid of me. She was trying to warn me. 
I whirled around and something went WHI1ISH ! Pain exploded in my shoulder. A force 
like a huge hand yanked me backward and slammed me to the wall. 
I slashed with my sword but  there was nothing to hit. 
A cold laugh echoed through the hall. 
"Yes, Perseus Jackson"  Dr. Thorn said. His accent mangled the J in my last name. "I 
know who you are." 
I tried to free my shoulder. My coat and sh irt were pinned to the wall by some kind of 
spike—a black dagger-like projectile about a f oot long. It had grazed th e skin of my shoulder 
as it passed through my clothes, and the cut bur ned. I'd felt something like this before. Poison. 
I forced myself to concentrate. I would not pass out. 
A dark silhouette now moved toward us. Dr . Thorn stepped into the dim light. He still 
looked human, but his face was ghoulish. He had pe rfect white teeth and his brown/blue eyes 
reflected the light of my sword. 
"Thank you for coming out of the gym," he said. "I hate middle school dances." 
I tried to swing my sword again, but he was just out of reach. 
WHIIIISH! A  second projectile shot from so mewhere behind Dr. Thorn. He didn't 
appear to move. It was as if someone invisi ble were standing behind him, throwing knives. 
Next to me, Bianca yelped. The second thorn imp aled itself in the stone wall, half an 
inch from her face. 
"All three of you will come w ith me," Dr. Thorn said. "Q uietly. Obediently. If you 
make a single noise, if you call out for help or tr y to fight, I will show you just how accurately 
I can throw." 
   TWO  
THE VICE PRINCIPAL GETS A MISSILE LAUNCHER  
I didn't know what kind of monster Dr. Thorn was, but he was fast. 
Maybe I could defend myself if I could get my shield activated. All that it would take 
was a touch of my wrist-watc h. But defending the di Angelo kids was another matter. I 
needed help, and there was only one  way I could think to get it. 
I closed my eyes. 
"What are you doing, Jackson?" hissed Dr. Thorn. "Keep moving!" 
I opened my eyes and kept shuffling forwar d. "It's my shoulder," I lied, trying to sound 
miserable, which wasn't hard. "It burns." 
"Bah! My poison causes pain. It  will not kill you. Walk!" 
Thorn herded us outside, and I tried to con centrate. I pictured Grover's face. I focused 
on my feelings of fear and danger. Last summer, Grover ha d created an empathy link between 
us. He'd sent me visions in my dreams to le t me know when he was in  trouble. As far as I 
knew, we were still linked, but I'd never tried to contact Grover before. I didn't even know if it 
would work while Grover was awake. 
Hey, Grover! I thought. Thorn's kidnapping us! He's a poisonous spike-throwing 
maniac! Help! 
Thorn inarched us into the woods. We took a snowy path dimly lit by old-fashioned 
lamplights. My shoulder ached. The wind blowing through my ripped clothes was so cold that 
I felt like a Percysicle. 
"There is a clearing ahead," Thorn said. "We will summon your ride." 
"What ride?" Bianca demanded. "Where are you taking us?" 
"Silence, you insufferable girl!" 
"Don't talk to my sister that way.'" Nico said. His voice quivered , but I was impressed 
that he had the guts to say anything at all. 
Dr. Thorn made a growling sound that definitely wasn't human. It made the hairs stand 
up on the back of my neck, but I forced myself  to keep walking and pretend I was being a 
good little captive. Meanwhile, I projected my  thoughts like crazy—anything to get Grover's 
attention: Grover! Apples! Tin cans! Get your fu rry goat behind out here and bring some 
heavily armed friends !  "Halt," Thorn said. 
The woods had opened up. We'd reached a cl iff overlooking the sea. At least, I sensed  
the sea was down there, hundreds of feet below.  I could hear the waves churning and I could 
smell the cold salty froth. But all I could see was mist and darkness. 
Dr. Thorn pushed us toward the edge. I stumbled, and Bianca caught me. 
"Thanks," I murmured. 
"What is he?" she whispered. "How do we fight him?" 
"I… I'm working on it." "I'm scared," Nico mumbled. He was fiddling with something—a little metal toy soldier 
of some kind. 
"Stop talking!" Dr. T horn said. "Face me!" 
We turned. 
Thorn's two-tone eyes glittered hungrily. He pulled something from under his coat. At 
first I thought it was a switchbl ade, but it was only a phone. He pressed the side button and 
said, "The package—it is ready to deliver." 
There was a garbled reply, and I realized Thorn was in walkie-talkie mode. This seemed 
way too modern and creepy—a monster using a mobile phone. 
I glanced behind me, wondering how far the drop was. Dr. Thorn laughed. "By all means, Son of Poseidon. Jump!There  is the sea. Save 
yourself." 
"What did he call you?" Bianca muttered. 
"I'll explain later," I said. "You do have a plan, right?" 
Grover! I thought desperately. Come to me ! 
Maybe I could get both the di Angelos to jump  with me into the ocean. If we survived 
the fall, I could use the water to protect us. I'd done things like that before. If my dad was in a 
good mood, and listening, he  might help. Maybe. 
"I would kill you before you ever reached the water," Dr. Thorn said, as if reading my 
thoughts. "You do not realize who I am, do you?"  A flicker of movement behind him, and anothe r missile whistled so close to me that it 
nicked my ear. Something had sprung up be hind Dr. Thorn—like a catapult, but more 
flexible… almost like a tail. 
"Unfortunately," Thorn said, "you are wanted alive, if possible. Otherwise you would 
already be dead." 
"Who wants us?" Bianca demanded. "Because  if you think you'll get a ransom, you're 
wrong. We don't have any family. Nico and I…" Her voice broke a little. "We've got no one 
but each other." 
"Aww," Dr. Thorn said. "Do not worry, little br ats. You will be meeting my employer 
soon enough. Then you will have a brand-new family." 
"Luke," I said. "You work for Luke." 
Dr. Thorn's mouth twisted with distaste wh en I said the name of my old enemy—a 
former friend who'd tried to kill me severa l times. "You have no idea what is happening, 
Perseus Jackson. I will let the General enlighten you. You are going to do him a great service 
tonight. He is looking fo rward to meeting you." 
"The General?" I asked. Then I realized I' d said it with a French accent. "I mean… 
who's the General?" 
Thorn looked toward the horizon. "Ah, here we are. Your transportation." I turned and saw a light in the distance, a searchlight over the sea. Then I heard the 
chopping of helicopter blades getting louder and closer. 
"Where are you taking us?" Nico said. 
"You should be honored, my boy. You will have the opportunity to join a great army! 
Just like that silly game you play with cards and dolls." 
"They're not dolls! They're figurines! And you can take your great army and—" 
"Now, now," Dr. Thorn warned. "You will change your mind about joining us, my boy. 
And if you do not, well… there are other uses  for half-bloods. We have many monstrous 
mouths to feed. The Great Stirring is underway." 
"The Great what?" I asked. Anything to keep  him talking while I tried to figure out a 
plan. 
"The stirring of monsters." Dr. Thorn sm iled evilly. "The worst of them, the most 
powerful, are now waking. Monsters that have not been seen in thousands of years. They will 
cause death and destruction the likes of which mortals have never known. And soon we shall 
have the most important monster of all—the one that shall bring about the downfall of 
Olympus!" 
"Okay," Bianca whispered to me. "He's completely nuts."  "We have to jump off the cliff," I told her quietly . "Into the sea." 
"Oh, super idea. You're completely nuts, too." 
I never got the chance to argue with her, b ecause just then an invisible force slammed 
into me. 
  Looking back on it, Annabeth's move was bril liant. Wearing her cap of invisibility, she 
plowed into the di Angelos and me, knocking us to the ground. For a split second, Dr. Thorn 
was taken by surprise, so his first volley of missiles zipped harmlessly over our heads. This 
gave Thalia and Grover a chance to advance from behind—Thalia wielding her magic shield, 
Aegis. 
If you've never seen Thalia run into battle, you have neve r been truly frightened. She 
uses a huge spear that expands from this collap sible Mace canister she carries in her pocket, 
but that's not the scary part. Her shield is modeled after one her dad Zeus uses—also called 
Aegis—a gift from Athena. The shield has th e head of the gorgon Medusa molded into the 
bronze, and even though it won't turn you to stone , it's so horrible, most people will panic and 
run at the sight of it. 
Even Dr. Thorn winced and growled when he saw it. 
Thalia moved in with her spear. "For Zeus!" 
I thought Dr. Thorn was a goner. Thalia jabbed at his head, but he snarled and swatted 
the spear aside. His hand changed into an ora nge paw, with enormous claws that sparked 
against Thalia's shield as he slashed. If it hadn' t been for Aegis, Thalia would've been sliced 
like a loaf of bread. As it was, she mana ged to roll backward and land on her feet. 
The sound of the helicopter was getting louder behind me, but I didn't dare look. 
Dr. Thorn launched another volley of missiles at Thalia, and this time I could see how 
he did it. He had a tail—a leathery, scorpionlike tail that bristled with spikes at the tip. The 
missiles deflected off Aegis, but the fo rce of their impact knocked Thalia down. 
Grover sprang forward. He put his reed pipes to  his lips and began to play—a frantic jig 
that sounded like something pirates would dan ce to. Grass broke through the snow. Within 
seconds, rope-thick weeds were wrapping around Dr. Thorn's legs, entangling him. 
Dr. Thorn roared and began to change. He grew larger until he was in his true form—his 
face still human, but his body that of a huge lion. His leathery, spiky tail whipped deadly 
thorns in all directions. 
"A manticore!" Annabeth said, now visibl e. Her magical New York Yankees cap had 
come off when she'd plowed into us. 
"Who are you people?" Bianca di Angelo demanded. "And what is that ?"  "A manticore?" Nico gasped. "He's got thr ee thousand attack power  and plus five to 
saving throws!" 
I didn't know what he was talking about, but I didn't have time to worry about it. The 
manticore clawed Grover's magic weeds to shre ds then turned toward us with a snarl. 
"Get down!" Annabeth pushed the di Angelos flat into the snow. At the last second, I 
remembered my own shield. I hit my wristwatc h, and metal plating spiraled out into a thick 
bronze shield. Not a moment too soon. The thorns  impacted against it w ith such force they 
dented the metal. The beautiful shield, a gift from my brother, was badly damaged. I wasn't 
sure it would even stop a second volley. 
I heard a thwack  and a yelp, and Grover landed  next to me with a thud. 
"Yield!" the monster roared. 
"Never!" Thalia yelled from across the field. She charged the monster, and for a second, 
I thought she would run him through. But then there was a thunderous noise and a blaze of 
light from behind us. The helicopter appeared out of the mist, hovering just beyond the cliffs. 
It was a sleek black military-style gunship, with  attachments on the sides that looked like 
laser-guided rockets. The helic opter had to be manned by mortal s, but what was it doing here? 
How could mortals be working with a monster? The searchli ghts blinded Thalia, and the 
manticore swatted her away with its tail. Her shie ld flew off into the snow. Her spear flew in 
the other direction. 
"No!" I ran out to help her. I parried away a spike just before it would've hit her chest. I 
raised my shield over us, but I knew it wouldn't be enough. 
Dr. Thorn laughed. "Now do you see how hopeless it is? Yield, little heroes." 
We were trapped between a monster and a fully armed helicopter. We had no chance. Then I heard a clear, piercing sound: the call of a hunting horn bl owing in the woods. 
The manticore froze. For a moment, no one moved. There was only the swirl of snow 
and wind and the chopping of the helicopter blades. 
"No," Dr. Thorn said. "It cannot be—" His sentence was cut short when something shot past me like a streak of moonlight. A 
glowing silver arrow sprouted  from Dr. Thorn's shoulder. 
He staggered backward, wailing in agony. "Curse you!" Thorn cried. He unleashed his spikes, dozens of  them at once, into the 
woods where the arrow had come from, but just as  fast, silvery arrows shot back in reply. It 
almost looked like the arrows had intercepted the thorns  in midair and sliced them in two, but  my eyes must've been playing tricks on me. No  one, not even Apollo's kids at camp, could 
shoot with that much accuracy. 
The manticore pulled the arrow out of his shoulder with a howl of pain. His breathing 
was heavy. I tried to swipe at him with my sword, but he wasn't as injured as he looked. He 
dodged my attack and slammed his tail into my shield, knocking me aside. 
Then the archers came from the woods. They were girls, about a dozen of them. The 
youngest was maybe ten. The oldest, about fourt een, like me. They wore silvery ski parkas 
and jeans, and they were a ll armed with bows. They adva nced on the manticore with 
determined expressions. 
"The Hunters!" Annabeth cried. 
Next to me, Thalia muttered, "Oh, wonderful." 
I didn't have a chance to ask what she meant. 
One of the older archers stepped forward w ith her bow drawn. She was tall and graceful 
with coppery colored skin. Unlike the other girls,  she had a silver circle t braided into the top 
of her long dark hair, so she looked like some kind of Persian princess. "Permission to kill, 
my lady?" 
I couldn't tell who she was talking to, becau se she kept her eyes on the manticore. 
The monster wailed. "This is not fair! Direct  interference! It is  against the Ancient 
Laws." 
"Not so," another girl sai d. This one was a little younger than me, maybe twelve or 
thirteen. She had auburn hair gathered back in  a ponytail and strange eyes, silvery yellow like 
the moon. Her face was so beautiful it made me catch my breath, but her expression was stern 
and dangerous. "The hunting of all wild beasts is within my sphere. And you, foul creature, 
are a wild beast." She looked at the older girl  with the circlet. "Zoe, permission granted." 
The manticore growled. "If I cannot have th ese alive, I shall have them dead!" 
He lunged at Thalia and me, kno wing we were weak and dazed. 
"No.'" Annabeth yelled, and sh e charged at the monster. 
"Get back, half-blood!" the girl with the ci rclet said. "Get out of the line of fire!" 
But Annabeth leaped onto the monster's back and drove her knife into his mane. The 
manticore howled, turning in circ les with his tail flailing as Annabeth hung on for dear life. 
"Fire!" Zoe ordered. 
"No!" I screamed.  But the Hunters let their arrows fly. The firs t caught the manticore in the neck. Another 
hit his chest. The manticore st aggered backward, wailing, "This is not the end, Huntress! You 
shall pay!" 
And before anyone could react, the monster, with Annabeth still on his back, leaped 
over the cliff and tumbled into the darkness. 
"Annabeth!" I yelled. 
I started to run after her,  but our enemies weren't done with us. There was a snap-snap-
snap from the helicopter—the sound of gunfire. 
Most of the Hunters scattered as tiny holes ap peared in the snow at their feet, but the 
girl with auburn hair just l ooked up calmly at the helicopter. 
"Mortals," she announced, "are not allowed to witness my hunt." 
She thrust out her hand, and the helicopter  exploded into dust—no, not dust. The black 
metal dissolved into a flock of birds—ravens, which scatte red into the night. 
The Hunters advanced on us. 
The one called Zoe stopped short when she sa w Thalia. "You," she sa id with distaste. 
"Zoe Nightshade." Thalia's voice trembled with anger. "Perfect timing, as usual." 
Zoe scanned the rest of us. "Four half-bloods and a satyr, my lady." "Yes," the younger girl said. "S ome of Chiron's campers, I see." 
"Annabeth!" I yelled. "You have to let us save her!" The auburn-haired girl turned toward me. "I 'm sorry, Percy Jackson, but your friend is 
beyond help." 
I tried to struggle to my feet, but a couple of the girls held me down. "You are in no condition to be  hurling yourself off cliffs," the auburn-haired girl said. 
"Let me go!" I demanded. "Who do you think you are?" Zoe stepped forward as if to smack me. 
"No," the other girl ordered. "I sense no disrespect, Zoe. He is simply distraught. He 
does not understand." 
The young girl looked at me, her eyes colder and brighter than the winter moon. "I am 
Artemis," she said. "Goddess of the Hunt." 
  THREE  
BIANCA DI ANCELO MAKES A CHOICE  
After seeing Dr. Thorn turn into a monster and plummet of f the edge of a cliff with 
Annabeth, you'd think nothing else could shock me. But when this twelve-year-old girl told 
me she was the goddess Artemis, I said some thing real intelligent like, "Um… okay." 
That was nothing compared to Grover. He gasped, then knelt hastily in the snow and 
started yammering, "Thank you, Lady Artemis! You're so… you're so… Wow!" 
"Get up, goat boy!" Thalia snappe d. "We have other things to  worry about. Annabeth is 
gone!" 
"Whoa," Bianca di Angelo said. "Hold up. Time out." 
Everybody looked at her. She pointed her finger at all of us in turn, like she was trying 
to connect the dots. "Who… who are you people?" 
Artemis's expression softened."It might be a better question, my dear girl, to ask who 
are you!Who are your parents?" 
Bianca glanced nervously at her brother, w ho was still staring in awe at Artemis. 
Our parents are dead," Bianca said. "We're orphans. There's a bank trust that pays for 
our school, but…" 
She faltered. I guess she could tell from our faces that we didn't believe her. 
"What?" she demanded. "I'm telling the truth." 
"You are a half-blood," Zoe Nightshade said. He r accent was hard to place. It sounded 
old-fashioned, like she was reading from a real ly old book. "One of thy parents was mortal. 
The other was an Olympian." 
"An Olympian… athlete?" 
"No," Zoe said. "One of the gods." 
"Cool!" said Nico. "No!" Bianca's voice quavered. "This is not cool!" 
Nico danced around like he needed to us e the restroom. "Does Zeus really have 
lightning bolts that do six hundred damage? Do es he get extra movement points for—"  "Nico, shut up!" Bianca put her hands to he r face. "This is not your stupid Mythomagic 
game, okay? There are no gods!" 
As anxious as I felt about Annabeth—all I wanted to do was search for her—I couldn't 
help feeling sorry for the di Angelos. I reme mbered what it was like for me when I first 
learned I was a demigod. 
Thalia must've been feeling something similar,  because the anger in her eyes subsided a 
little bit. "Bianca, I know it's hard to believe . But the gods are still around. Trust me. They're 
immortal. And whenever they have kids with regular humans, kids like us, well… Our lives 
are dangerous." 
"Dangerous," Bianca said, " like the girl who fell." 
Thalia turned away. Even Artemis looked pained. 
"Do not despair for Annabeth," the goddess sa id. "She was a brave maiden. If she can 
be found, I shall find her." 
"Then why won't you let us go look for her?" I asked. 
"She is gone. Can't you sense it, Son of Po seidon? Some magic is  at work. I do not 
know exactly how or why, but your friend has vanished." 
I still wanted to jump off the cliff and sear ch for her, but I had a feeling that Artemis 
was right. Annabeth was gone. If she'd been down there in the sea, I th ought, I'd be able to 
feel her presence. 
"Oo!" Nico raised his hand. "What about Dr . Thorn? That was aw esome how you shot 
him with arrows! Is he dead?" 
"He was a manticore," Artemis said. "Hopefull y he is destroyed for now, but monsters 
never truly die. They re-form over and over ag ain, and they must be hunted whenever they 
reappear." 
"Or they'll hunt us," Thalia said. 
Bianca di Angelo shivered. "That explains… Nico, you reme mber last summer, those 
guys who tried to attack us in the alley in DC?" 
"And that bus driver," Nico said. "The one with the ram's horns. I told  you that was 
real." 
"That's why Grover has been watching you," I said. "To keep you safe, if you turned out 
to be half-bloods." 
"Grover?" Bianca stared at him. "You're a demigod?" "Well, a satyr, actually." He kicked of f his shoes and displayed his goat hooves. I 
thought Bianca was going to faint right there.  "Grover, put your shoes back on," Thalia said. "You're freaking her out." 
"Hey, my hooves are clean!" 
"Bianca," I said, "we came here to help you. Yo u and Nico need training to survive. Dr. 
Thorn won't be the last monster you meet. You need to come to camp." 
"Camp?" she asked. "Camp Half-Blood," I said. "It' s where half-bloods learn to survive and stuff. You can 
join us, stay there year-round if you like." 
"Sweet, let's go!" said Nico. 
"Wait," Bianca shook her head. "I don't—" 
"There is another option," Zoe said. 
"No, there isn't!" Thalia said. 
Thalia and Zoe glared at each  other. I didn't know what th ey were talking about, but I 
could tell there was bad history between them. For some reason, they seriously hated each 
other. 
"We've burdened these children enough," Artemis announced. "Zoe, we will rest here 
for a few hours. Raise the tents. Treat the w ounded. Retrieve our guests' belongings from the 
school." 
"Yes, my lady." 
"And, Bianca, come with me. I would like to speak with you." 
"What about me?" Nico asked. 
Artemis considered the boy. "P erhaps you can show Grover how  to play that card game 
you enjoy. I'm sure Grover would be happy to en tertain you for a while… as a favor to me?" 
Grover just about tripped over himself getting up. "You bet! Come on, Nico!" 
Nico and Grover walked off toward the w oods, talking about hit points and armor 
ratings and a bunch of other g eeky stuff. Artemis led a confused-looking Bianca along the 
cliff. The Hunters began unpacking their knapsacks and making camp. 
Zoe gave Thalia one more evil look, then left to oversee things. As soon as she was gone, Thalia stamped her foot in frustration. "The nerve of those 
Hunters! They think they're so… Argh!" 
"I'm with you," I said. "I don't trust—"  "Oh, you're with me?" Thalia turned on me  furiously. "What were you thinking back 
there in the gym, Percy? You'd take  on Dr. Thorn all by yourself? You knew  he was a 
monster!" 
"If we'd stuck together, we could've take n him without the Hunt ers getting involved. 
Annabeth might still be here . Did you think of that?" 
My jaw clenched. I thought of some harsh th ings to say, and I might've said them too, 
but then I looked down and saw so mething navy blue lying in the snow at my feet. Annabeth's 
New York Yankees baseball cap. 
Thalia didn't say another word. She wiped a tear from her cheek, turned, and marched 
off, leaving me alone with a trampled cap in the snow. 
The Hunters set up their camping site in a ma tter of minutes. Seven large tents, all of 
silver silk, curved in a crescent around one side of a bonfire. One of the girls blew a silver dog 
whistle, and a dozen white wolves appeared ou t of the woods. They began circling the camp 
like guard dogs. The Hunters walked among them  and fed them treats, completely unafraid, 
but I decided I would stick close to the tents. Falcons watched us from the trees, their eyes 
flashing in the firelight, and I got the feeling they were on guard duty, too. Even the weather 
seemed to bend to the goddess's will. The air wa s still cold, but the wind died down and the 
snow stopped falling, so it was almost  pleasant sitting by the fire. 
Almost… except for the pain in my shoulde r and the guilt weighing me down. I couldn't 
believe Annabeth was gone. And as angry as I was at Thalia, I had a sinking feeling that she 
was right. It was my fault. 
What had Annabeth wanted to tell me in the gym? Something serious , she'd said. Now I 
might never find out. I thought about how we'd da nced together for half a song, and my heart 
felt even heavier. 
I watched Thalia pacing in the snow at the edge of camp, walking among the wolves 
without fear. She stopped and looked back at We stover Hall, which was now completely dark, 
looming on the hillside beyond the woods. I wondered what she was thinking. 
Seven years ago, Thalia had been turned into  a pine tree by her father, to prevent her 
from dying. She'd stood her ground against an army  of monsters on top of Half-Blood Hill in 
order to give her friends Luke and Annabeth time to escape. She'd only been back as a human 
for a few months now, and once in a while she would stand so motionless you'd think she was 
still a tree. 
Finally, one of the Hunters brought me my backpack. Grover and Nico came back from 
their walk, and Grover helped me fix up my wounded arm. 
"It's green!" Nico said with delight. 
"Hold still," Grover told me . "Here, eat some ambrosia while I clean that out."  I winced as he dressed the wound, but the ambrosia square  helped. It tasted like 
homemade brownie, dissolving in my mouth and sending a wa rm feeling through my whole 
body. Between that and the magic salve Grover us ed, my shoulder felt better within a couple 
of minutes. 
Nico rummaged through his own bag, which the Hunters had apparently packed for 
him, though how they'd snuck into Westover Hall unseen, I didn't know . Nico laid out a 
bunch of figurines in the snow—little battle re plicas of Greek gods and heroes. I recognized 
Zeus with a lightning bolt, Ares with a spear, Apollo with his sun chariot. 
"Big collection," I said. 
Nico grinned. "I've got almost all of them, pl us their holographic cards! Well, except for 
a few really rare ones." 
"You've been playing this game a long time?" 
"Just this year. Before th at…" He knit his eyebrows. 
"What?" I asked. 
"I forget. That's weird." 
He looked unsettled, but it didn't last long. "H ey, can I see that sword you were using?" 
I showed him Riptide, and explained how it turned from a pen into a sword just by 
uncapping it. 
"Cool! Does it ever run out of ink?" "Um, well, I don't actually write with it." "Are you really the son of Poseidon?" 
"Well, yeah." 
"Can you surf really well, then?" I looked at Grover, who wa s trying hard not to laugh. 
"Jeez, Nico," I said. "I've never really tried." 
He went on asking questions. Di d I fight a lot with Thalia, since she was a daughter of 
Zeus? (I didn't answer that one.) If Annabe th's mother was Athena, the goddess of wisdom, 
then why didn't Annabeth know better than to fall off a cliff? (I tried not to strangle Nico for 
asking that one.) Was Annabeth my  girlfriend? (At this point, I was ready to stick the kid in a 
meat-flavored sack and throw him to the wolves.) 
I figured any second he was going to ask me how many hit points I had, and I'd lose my 
cool completely, but then Zoe Nightshade came up to us.  "Percy Jackson." 
She had dark brown eyes and a slightly upturned nose. With  her silver circlet and her 
proud expression, she looked so much like royalty that I had to resist  the urge to s it up straight 
and say "Yes, ma'am." She studied me distaste fully, like I was a bag of dirty laundry she'd 
been sent to fetch. 
"Come with me," she said. "Lady Artemis wishes to speak with thee." 
Zoe led me to the last tent, which looked no different from the others, and waved me 
inside. Bianca di Angelo was seated next to the auburn-haired girl, who I still had trouble 
thinking of as Artemis. 
The inside of the tent was warm and comfor table. Silk rugs and pillows covered the 
floor. In the center, a golden braz ier of fire seemed to burn w ithout fuel or smoke. Behind the 
goddess, on a polished oak display stand, was her huge silver bow, carved to resemble gazelle 
horns. The walls were hung with animal pelts: bl ack bear, tiger, and several others I didn't 
recognize. I figured an animal rights activist would've had a heart attack looking at all those 
rare skins, but maybe since Artemis was the goddess of the hunt, she could replenish 
whatever she shot. I thought she had another animal  pelt lying next to her, and then I realized 
it was a live animal—a deer with glittering fur a nd silver horns, its head resting contentedly in 
Artemis's lap. 
"Join us, Percy Jackson," the goddess said. 
I sat across from her on the tent floor. The goddess studied me, which made me 
uncomfortable. She had such old eyes for a young girl. 
"Are you surprised by my age?" she asked. "Uh… a little." "I could appear as a grown woman, or a blazing fire, or anything else I want, but this is 
what I prefer. This is the average age of my  Hunters, and all young maidens for whom I am 
patron, before they go astray." 
"Go astray?" I asked. 
"Grow up. Become smitten with  boys. Become silly, preoccupied, insecure. Forget 
themselves." 
"Oh." 
Zoe sat down at Artemis's right. She glared at me  as if all the stuff Artemis had just said 
was my fault, like I'd invented the idea of being a guy.  "You must forgive my Hunters if they do not  welcome you," Artemis said. "It is very 
rare that we would have boys in this camp. Bo ys are usually forbidden to have any contact 
with the Hunters. The last one to see this ca mp…" She looked at Zoe. "Which one was it?" 
"That boy in Colorado," Zoe said. "You turned him into a jackalope." 
"Ah, yes." Artemis nodded, satisfied. "I enjo y making jackalopes. At any rate, Percy, 
I've asked you here so that you might tell me more of the manticore. Bianca has reported 
some of the… mmm, disturbing things the mo nster said. But she may not have understood 
them. I'd like to hear them from you." 
And so I told her. When I was done, Artemis put her hand thoughtfu lly on her silver bow . "I feared this 
was the answer." 
Zoe sat forward. "The scent, my lady?" 
"Yes." 
"What scent?" I asked. 
"Things are stirring that I have not hunted  in millennia," Artemis murmured. "Prey so 
old I have nearly forgotten." 
She stared at me intently. "We came here t onight sensing the manticore, but he was not 
the one I seek. Tell me again, exactly what Dr. Thorn said." 
"Um, 'I hate middle school dances.'" 
"No, no. After that." "He said somebody called the General was going to explain things to me." Zoe's face paled. She turned to Artemis and started to say something, but Artemis raised 
her hand. 
"Go on, Percy," the goddess said. "Well, then Thorn was talking about the Great Stir Pot—" 
"Stirring," Bianca corrected. 
"Yeah. And he said, 'Soon we shall have the most important monster of all—the one 
that shall bring about the downfall of Olympus.'" 
The goddess was so still she could've been a statue. 
"Maybe he was lying," I said.  Artemis shook her head. "No. He was not. I've  been too slow to see the signs. I must 
hunt this monster." 
Zoe looked like she was trying very hard not  to be afraid, but she nodded. "We will 
leave right away, my lady." 
"No, Zoe. I must do this alone." 
"But, Artemis—" 
"This task is too dangerous even for the Hunters. You know wher e I must start my 
search. You cannot go there with me." 
"As… as you wish, my lady." I will find this creature," Artemis vowed. "And I shall bring it back to Olympus by 
winter solstice. It will be all the proof I n eed to convince the Council  of the Gods of how 
much danger we are in." 
"You know what the monster is?" I asked. 
Artemis gripped her bow. "Let us pray I am wrong." "Can goddesses pray?" I asked, because I'd never really thought about that. A flicker of a smile played across Artemis's lips. "Before I go, Percy Jackson, I have a 
small task for you." 
"Does it involve getting tu rned into a jackalope?" 
"Sadly, no. I want you to escort  the Hunters back to Camp  Half-Blood. They can stay 
there in safety until I return." 
"What ?" Zoe' blurted out. "But, Artemis, we ha te that place. The last time we stayed 
there—" 
"Yes, I know," Artemis said. "But I'm sure Dionysus will not hold a grudge just because 
of a little, ah, misunderstanding. It's your right to use Cabin Eight whenever you are in need. 
Besides, I hear they rebuilt the cabins you burned down." 
Zoe muttered something about foolish campers. 
"And now there is one last decision to ma ke." Artemis turned to Bianca. "Have you 
made up your mind, my girl?" 
Bianca hesitated. "I'm still thinking about it." 
"Wait," I said. "Thinking about what?" "They… they've invited me to join the Hunt."  "What? But you can't! You have to come to  Camp Half-Blood so Chiron can train you. 
It's the only way you can learn to survive." 
"It is not the only way for a girl," Zoe said. 
I couldn't believe I was hearing this. "Bianca, camp is cool! It's got a pegasus stable and 
a sword-fighting arena and… I mean, wh at do you get by joining the Hunters?" 
"To begin with," Zoe said, "immortality." 
I stared at her, then at Ar temis. "She's kidding, right?" 
"Zoe rarely kids about a nything," Artemis said. "My H unters follow me on my 
adventures. They are my maidservants, my comp anions, my sisters-in-arms. Once they swear 
loyalty to me, they are indeed immortal… unle ss they fall in battle, which is unlikely. Or 
break their oath." 
"What oath?" I said. "To foreswear romantic love forever," Ar temis said. "To neve r grow up, never get 
married. To be a maiden eternally." 
"Like you?" The goddess nodded. I tried to imagine what she was saying. Being immortal. Hanging out with only middle-
school girls forever. I couldn't get my mi nd around it. "So you just go around the country 
recruiting half-bloods—" 
"Not just half-bloods," Zoe interrupted. "Lady Artemis does not discriminate by birth. 
All who honor the goddess may join. Half-bloods, nymphs, mortals—" 
"Which are you, then?" Anger flashed in Zoe's eyes. "That is not thy concern, boy. The point is Bianca may join 
if she wishes. It is her choice." 
"Bianca, this is crazy," I said. "What about  your brother? Nico can't be a Hunter." 
"Certainly not," Artemis agreed. "He will go to  camp. Unfortunately, that's the best boys 
can do." 
"Hey!" I protested. "You can see him from time to time," Artemis assured Bianca. "But you will be free of 
responsibility. He will have the camp counselors to take care of him. And you will have a new 
family. Us." 
"A new family," Bianca repeated dr eamily. "Free of responsibility."  "Bianca, you can't do this ," I said. "It's nuts." 
She looked at Zoe. "Is it worth it?" 
Zoe nodded. "It is." 
"What do I have to do?" 
"Say this," Zoe told her, " 'I pl edge myself to the goddess Artemis.'" 
"I… I pledge myself to the goddess Artemis." "'I turn my back on the company of me n, accept eternal maidenhood, and join the 
Hunt.'" 
Bianca repeated the lines. "That's it?" Zoe nodded. "If Lady Artemis accepts thy pledge, then it is binding." "I accept it," Artemis said. The flames in the brazier bri ghtened, casting a silver glow over the room. Bianca looked 
no different, but she took a deep breath a nd opened her eyes wide. "I feel… stronger." 
"Welcome, sister," Zoe said. "Remember your pledge," Artemis said. "It is now your life." I couldn't speak. I felt like a trespasser. And a complete failure. I couldn't believe I'd 
come all this way and suffered so much only to  lose Bianca to some eternal girls' club. 
"Do not despair, Percy Jackson," Artemis said. "You will still get to show the di 
Angelos your camp. And if Nico so chooses, he can stay there." 
"Great," I said, trying not to sound surl y. "How are we supposed to get there?" 
Artemis closed her eyes. "Dawn is appro aching. Zoe, break camp. You must get to 
Long Island quickly and safely. I shal l summon a ride from my brother." 
Zoe didn't look real happy about this idea, but she nodded and told Bianca to follow her. 
As she was leaving, Bianca paused in front of me. "I'm sorry, Percy. But I want this. I really, 
really do." 
Then she was gone, and I was left alone with the twel ve-year-old goddess. 
"So," I said glumly. "We're going to get a ride from your brother, huh?" 
Artemis's silver eyes gleamed. "Yes, boy. You see, Bianca di Angelo is not the only one 
with an annoying brother. It's time for you to meet my irrespons ible twin, Apollo."  FOUR  
THALIA TORCHES NEW ENGLAND  
Artemis assured us that dawn was coming, but  you could've fooled me. It was colder 
and darker and snowier than ever. Up on the hill, Westover Hall's windows were completely 
lightless. I wondered if the teachers had even  noticed the di Angelos and Dr. Thorn were 
missing yet. I didn't want to be around when th ey did. With my luck, the only name Mrs. 
Gottschalk would remember was "Percy Jackson," and then I'd be the subject of a nationwide 
manhunt… again. 
The Hunters broke camp as quickly as they 'd set it up. I stood shivering in the snow 
(unlike the Hunters, who didn't s eem to feel at all uncomfortable ), and Artemis stared into the 
east like she was expecting something. Bianca sat off to one side, talking with Nico. I could 
tell from his gloomy face that she was explaining  her decision to join the Hunt. I couldn't help 
thinking how selfish it was of her,  abandoning her brother like that. 
Thalia and Grover came up and huddled around me, anxious to hear what had happened 
in my audience with the goddess. 
When I told them, Grover turned pale. "The  last time the Hunters visited camp, it didn't 
go well." 
"How'd they even show up here?" I wondere d. "I mean, they just appeared out of 
nowhere." 
"And Bianca joined  them," Thalia said, disgusted. "It' s all Zoe's fault. That stuck-up, no 
good—" 
"Who can blame her?" Grover said. "Eternity with Artemis?" He heaved a big sigh. Thalia rolled her eyes. "You sa tyrs. You're all in love with  Artemis. Don't you get that 
she'll never love you back?" 
"But she's so… into nature," Grover swooned. 
"You're nuts," said Thalia. 
"Nuts and berries," Grover said dreamily. "Yeah." 
Finally the sky began to light en. Artemis muttered, "About time . He's so-o-o lazy during 
the winter." 
"You're, um, waiting for sunrise?" I asked.  "For my brother. Yes." 
I didn't want to be rude. I mean, I knew the legends about Apollo—or sometimes 
Helios—driving a big sun chariot across the sky. But I also knew that the sun was really a star 
about a zillion miles away. I'd gotten used to so me of the Greek myths be ing true, but still… I 
didn't see how Apollo could drive the sun. 
"It's not exactly as you think," Artemis said, like she was reading my mind. 
"Oh, okay." I started to relax. "So, it's  not like he'll be pulling up in a—" 
There was a sudden burst of light on the horizon. A blast of warmth. 
"Don't look," Artemis advised. "Not until he parks." Parks?  
I averted my eyes, and saw that the other kids were doing the same. The light and 
warmth intensified until my winter coat felt like it was melting off of me. Then suddenly the 
light died. 
I looked. And I couldn't believe it. It was my car. Well, the car I wanted, anyway. A red 
convertible Maserati Spyder. It was so awesome it glowed. Then I realized it was glowing 
because the metal was hot. The snow had melte d around the Maserati in a perfect circle, 
which explained why I was now standing on green grass and my shoes were wet. 
The driver got out, smiling. He looked about seventeen or eighteen, and for a second, I 
had the uneasy feeling it was Luke, my old en emy. This guy had the same sandy hair and 
outdoorsy good looks. But it wasn't Luke. This guy was taller, with no scar on his face like Luke's. His smile was brighter and more playfu l. (Luke didn't do much more than scowl and 
sneer these days.) The Maserati driver wore jeans and loafers and a sleeveless T-shirt. 
"Wow," Thalia muttered. "Apollo is hot." 
"He's the sun god," I said. "That's not what I meant." "Little sister!" Apollo called. If his teeth were any whiter he  could've blinded us without 
the sun car. "What's up? You never call. You never write. I was getting worried!" 
Artemis sighed. "I'm fine, Apollo. And I am not your little  sister." 
"Hey, I was born first." "We're twins! How many millennia do we have to argue—" "So what's up?" he interrupted. "Got the girls with you, I see.  You all need some tips on 
archery?"  Artemis grit her teeth. "I need a favor. I have some hunting to do, alone . I need you to 
take my companions to Camp Half-Blood." 
"Sure, sis!" Then he raised his hands in a stop everything gesture. "I feel a haiku coming 
on." 
The Hunters all groaned. Apparently they'd met Apollo before. 
He cleared his throat and held up one hand dramatically. 
"Green grass breaks through snow.  
Artemis pleads for my help.  
I am so cool."  
He grinned at us, waiting for applause. 
"That last line was only four  syllables," Artemis said. 
Apollo frowned. "Was it?" 
"Yes. What about I am so big-headed ?" 
"No, no, that's six syllables. Hmm." He started muttering to himself. 
Zoe Nightshade turned to us. "Lord Apollo has been going through this haiku phase 
ever since he visited Japan. 'Tis not as bad as the time he visited Limerick. If I'd had to hear 
one more poem that started with, There once was a goddess from Sparta —" 
"I've got it!" Apollo announced. " I am so awesome. That's five syllables!" He bowed, 
looking very pleased with himself. 
"And now, sis. Transportation for the Hunter s, you say? Good timing. I was just about 
ready to roll." 
"These demigods will also need a ride," Arte mis said, pointing to us. "Some of Chiron's 
campers." 
"No problem!" Apollo checked us out. "Let's  see… Thalia, right? I've heard all about 
you." 
Thalia blushed. "Hi, Lord Apollo." 
"Zeus's girl, yes? Makes you my half sister. Used to be a tree, didn't you? Glad you're 
back. I hate it when pretty girls turn into trees. Man, I remember one time—"  "Brother," Artemis said. "You should get going." 
"Oh, right." Then he looked at me, a nd his eyes narrowed. "Percy Jackson?" 
"Yeah. I mean… yes, sir." It seemed weird calling a teenager "sir," bu t I'd learned to be careful with immortals. 
They tended to get offended easil y. Then they blew stuff up. 
Apollo studied me, but he didn't sa y anything, which I found a little creepy. 
"Well!" he said at last. "We'd better lo ad up, huh? Ride only goes one way—west. And 
if you miss it, you miss it." 
I looked at the Maserati, which would seat two people max. There were about twenty of 
us. 
"Cool car," Nico said. "Thanks, kid," Apollo said. "But how will we all fit?" "Oh." Apollo seemed to notice the problem fo r the first time. "Well, yeah. I hate to 
change out of sports-car mode, but I suppose…" 
He took out his car keys and b eeped the security alarm button. Chirp, chirp . 
For a moment, the car glowed brightly again. When the glare died, the Maserati had 
been replaced by one of those Turtle Top shuttle buses like we used for school basketball 
games. 
"Right," he said. "Everybody in." 
Zoe ordered the Hunters to start loading. She picked up her camping pack, and Apollo 
said, "Here, sweetheart. Let me get that." 
Zoe recoiled. Her eyes flashed murderously. 
"Brother," Artemis chided. "You do not help my Hunters. You do not look at, talk to, or 
flirt with my Hunters. And you do not call them sweetheart." 
Apollo spread his hands. "Sorry. I forgot . Hey, sis, where are you off to, anyway?" 
"Hunting," Artemis said. "It's none of your business." "I'll find out. I see all. Know all." 
Artemis snorted. "Just drop them off, Apollo. And no messing around!"  "No, no! I never mess around." 
Artemis rolled her eyes, then looked at us. "I will see you by winter solstice. Zoe, you 
are in charge of the Hunters. Do well. Do as I would do." 
Zoe straightened. "Yes, my lady." 
Artemis knelt and touched the ground as if looking for tracks. When she rose, she 
looked troubled. "So much danger. The beast must be found." 
She sprinted toward the woods and melted into the snow and shadows. 
Apollo turned and grinned, jangling the car keys  on his finger. "So," he said. "Who 
wants to drive?" 
  The Hunters piled into the van. They all crammed into the back so they'd be as far away 
as possible from Apollo and the rest of us highly infectious males,  Bianca sat with them, 
leaving her little brother to hang in the front with us, which seemed cold to me, but Nico 
didn't seem to mind. 
"This is so cool!" Nico said, jumping up and down in the driver's seat. "Is this really the 
sun? I thought Helios and Selene were the sun and moon gods. How come sometimes it's 
them and sometimes it's you and Artemis?" 
"Downsizing," Apollo said. "T he Romans started it. They  couldn't afford all those 
temple sacrifices, so they laid off Helios and Selene and folded their duties into our job 
descriptions. My sis got the moon. I got the sun. It  was pretty annoying at first, but at least I 
got this cool car." 
"But how does it work?" Nico asked. "I though t the sun was a big fiery ball of gas!" 
Apollo chuckled and ruffled Nico's hair . "That rumor probably got started because 
Artemis used to call me a big fiery ball of gas. Seriously, kid, it depends on whether you're 
talking astronomy or philosophy. You want to talk astronomy? Bah, what fun is that? You want to talk about how humans think  about the sun? Ah, now that's  more interesting. They've 
got a lot riding on the sun… er, so to speak. It keeps them warm, grows their crops, powers engines, makes everything look, well, sunnie r. This chariot is built out of human dreams  
about the sun, kid. It's as old as Western Civi lization. Every day, it drives across the sky from 
east to west, lighting up all those puny little mort al lives. The chariot is a manifestation of the 
sun's power, the way mortals perceive it. Make sense?" 
Nico shook his head. "No." 
"Well then, just think of it as a really  powerful, really dangerous solar car." 
"Can I drive?" "No. Too young."  "Oo! Oo!" Grover raised his hand. 
"Mm, no," Apollo said. "Too furry." He looked past me and focused on Thalia. 
"Daughter of Zeus!" he said. "Lord of the sky. Perfect." 
"Oh, no." Thalia shook her head. "No, thanks." 
"C'mon," Apollo said. "How old are you?" Thalia hesitated. "I don't know." It was sad, but true. She'd been turned into  a tree when she was twelve, but that had 
been seven years ago. So she should be ninetee n, if you went by years. But she still felt like 
she was twelve, and if you looked at her, she seemed somewhere in between. The best Chiron 
could figure, she had kept aging while in tree form, but much more slowly. 
Apollo tapped his finger to his lips. "You're fifteen, almost sixteen." "How do you know that?" "Hey, I'm the god of prophecy. I know stuff. You'll turn sixteen in about a week." 
"That's my birthday! December twenty-second." 
"Which means you're old enough now to drive with a learner's permit!" Thalia shifted her f eet nervously. "Uh—" 
"I know what you're going to say," Apollo said. "You don't deserve an honor like 
driving the sun chariot." 
"That's not what I was going to say." 
"Don't sweat it! Maine to Long Island is a really short trip, and don't worry about what 
happened to the last kid I tr ained. You're Zeus's daughter. He's not going to blast you  out of 
the sky." 
Apollo laughed good-naturedly. The rest of us didn't join him. Thalia tried to protest, but Apollo was abso lutely not going to take  "no" for an answer. 
He hit a button on the dashboard, and a sign pop ped up along the top of the windshield. I had 
to read it backward (which, for a dyslexic, really isn't that di fferent than read ing forward). I 
was pretty sure it said WARNING: STUDENT DRIVER. 
"Take it away!" Apollo told Th alia. "You're gonna be a natural!" 
   I'll admit I was jealous. I couldn't wait to star t driving. A couple of times that fall, my 
mom had taken me out to Montauk when the be ach road was empty, and she'd let me try out 
her Mazda. I mean, yeah, that was a Japanese compact, and this was th e sun chariot, but how 
different could it be? 
"Speed equals heat," Apollo advised. "So start slowly, and make sure you've got good 
altitude before you re ally open her up." 
Thalia gripped the wheel so tight her knuckl es turned white. She looked like she was 
going to be sick. 
"What's wrong?" I asked her. 
"Nothing," she said shakily. "N-nothing is wrong." 
She pulled back on the wheel. It  tilted, and the bus lurched upward so fast I fell back 
and crashed against something soft. 
"Ow" Grover said. 
"Sorry." 
"Slower!" Apollo said. "Sorry!" Thalia said. "I'v e got it under control!" 
I managed to get to my feet. Looking out  the window, I saw a smoking ring of trees 
from the clearing where we'd taken off. 
"Thalia," I said, "lighten up on the accelerator." "I've got it, Percy," she said, gritting he r teeth. But she kept it floored. 
"Loosen up," I told her. "I'm loose!"Thalia said. She was so stiff she looked like she was made out of plywood. 
"We need to veer south for Long Is land," Apollo said. "Hang a left." 
Thalia jerked the wheel and again threw me into Grover, who yelped. 
"The other left," Apollo suggested. 
I made the mistake of looking out the window again. We were at airplane height now—
so high the sky was starting to look black. 
"Ah…" Apollo said, and I got the feeling he was forcing himself to sound calm. "A 
little lower, sweetheart. Ca pe Cod is freezing over."  Thalia tilted the wheel. He r face was chalk white, her fo rehead beaded with sweat. 
Something was definitely wrong. I' d never seen her like this. 
The bus pitched down and somebody scream ed. Maybe it was me. Now we were 
heading straight toward the Atlantic Ocean at a thousand miles an hour, the New England 
coastline off to our right. And it was getting hot in the bus. 
Apollo had been thrown somewhere in the back of the bus, but he started climbing up 
the rows of seats. 
"Take the wheel!" Grover begged him. 
"No worries," Apollo said. He looked plenty worried. "She just has to learn to—
WHOA!" 
I saw what he was seeing. Down below us  was a little snow-covered New England 
town. At least, it used to be snow-covered. As I watched, the snow melted off the trees and 
the roofs and the lawns. The white steeple on a church turned brown an d started to smolder. 
Little plumes of smoke, like birthday candles , were popping up all over the town. Trees and 
rooftops were catching fire. 
"Pull up!" I yelled. 
There was a wild light in Thalia's eyes. Sh e yanked back on the wh eel, and I held on 
this time. As we zoomed up, I could see throug h the back window that the fires in the town 
were being snuffed out by the sudden blast of cold. 
"There!" Apollo pointed. "Long Island, dead  ahead. Let's slow down, dear. 'Dead' is 
only an expression." 
Thalia was thundering toward the coastlin e of northern Long Island. There was Camp 
Half-Blood: the valley, the woods, the beach. I could see the dining pavilion and cabins and 
the amphitheater. 
"I'm under control," Thalia muttered. "I'm under control." We were only a few hundred yards away now. "Brake," Apollo said. "I can do this." 
"BRAKE!" 
Thalia slammed her foot on the brake, and th e sun bus pitched forward at a forty-five-
degree angle, slamming into the Camp Half-Blood canoe lake with a huge FLOOOOOOSH ! 
Steam billowed up, sending several frightened na iads scrambling out of the water with half-
woven wicker baskets. 
The bus bobbed to the surface, along with a couple of capsized, half-melted canoes.  "Well," said Apollo with a brave smile. "You were right, my dear. You had everything 
under control! Let's go see if we boiled anyone important, shall we?" 
   FIVE  
I PLACE AN UNDERWATER PHONE CALL  
I'd never seen Camp Half-Blood in winter before, and the snow surprised me. 
See, the camp has the ultimate magic climate control. Nothing gets inside the borders 
unless the director, Mr. D, wants it to. I thought it would be warm and sunny, but instead the 
snow had been allowed to fall lightly. Frost covered the chariot track and the strawberry 
fields. The cabins were decorated with tiny flicke ring lights, like Christmas lights, except they 
seemed to be balls of real fire. More lights gl owed in the woods, and we irdest of all, a fire 
flickered in the attic window of  the Big House, where the Oracl e dwelt, imprisoned in an old 
mummified body. I wondered if the spirit of De lphi was roasting marshmallows up there or 
something. 
"Whoa," Nico said as he climbed of f the bus. "Is that a climbing wall?" 
"Yeah," I said. 
"Why is there lava pouring down it?" "Little extra challenge. Come on. I'll intr oduce you to Chiron. Zoe, have you met—" 
"I know Chiron," Zoe said stiffly. "Tell him we will be in Cabin Eight. Hunters, follow 
me." 
"I'll show you the way," Grover offered. "We know the way." "Oh, really, it's no trouble. It's easy to get lost here, if you don' t"—he tripped over a 
canoe and came up still talking—"like my old daddy goat used to say! Come on!" 
Zoe rolled her eyes, but I guess she figured there was no getting rid of Grover. The 
Hunters shouldered their packs and their bows a nd headed off toward the cabins. As Bianca di 
Angelo was leaving, she leaned over and whispere d something in her brothers ear. She looked 
at him for an answer, but Nico just scowled and turned away. 
"Take care, sweethearts!" Apo llo called after the Hunters. He winked at me. "Watch out 
for those prophecies, Percy. I'll see you soon." 
"What do you mean?" Instead of answering, he hopped back in the bus. "Later, Thal ia," he called. "And, uh, be 
good!"  He gave her a wicked smile, as if he knew something she didn't. Then he closed the 
doors and revved the engine. I turned  aside as the sun chariot took off in a blast of heat. When 
I looked back, the lake was steaming. A red Mase rati soared over the w oods, glowing brighter 
and climbing higher until it disapp eared in a ray of sunlight. 
Nico was still looking grumpy. I wonder ed what his sister had told him. 
"Who's Chiron?" he asked. "I don't have his figurine." 
"Our activities director," I sa id. "He's… well, you'll see. 
"If those Hunter girls don't like him," Nico grumbled, "that's good enough for me. Let's 
go." 
The second thing that surprised me about camp was how empty it was. I mean, I knew 
most half-bloods only trained during the summer . Just the year-rounders would be here—the 
ones who didn't have homes to go to, or would get attacked by monsters too much if they left. 
But there didn't even seem to be many of them, either. 
I spotted Charles Beckendorf from the Hephaestus cabin stoking the forge outside the 
camp armory. The Stoll brothers, Travis and Connor, from the Hermes cabin, were picking 
the lock on the camp store. A few kids from the Ares cabin were having  a snowball fight with 
the wood nymphs at the edge of the forest. That was about it. Even my ol d rival from the Ares 
cabin, Clarisse, didn't seem to be around. 
The Big House was decorated with strings of  red and yellow fireballs that warmed the 
porch but didn't seem to catch anything on fire. Inside, flames crackled in the hearth. The air 
smelled like hot chocolate. Mr. D, the camp dir ector, and Chiron were playing a quiet game of 
cards in the parlor. 
Chiron's brown beard was shaggier for the winter. His curly hair had grown a little 
longer. He wasn't posing as a teacher this year, so I guess he could afford to be casual. He 
wore a fuzzy sweater with a hoofprint design on it,  and he had a blanket on his lap that almost 
hid his wheelchair completely. 
He smiled when he saw us. "Percy! Thalia! Ah, and this must be—" 
"Nico di Angelo," I said. "He a nd his sister are half-bloods." 
Chiron breathed a sigh of relief. "You succeeded, then." 
"Well…" 
His smile melted. "What's wrong?  And where is Annabeth?" 
"Oh, dear," Mr. D said in a bored voice, "Not anot her one lost."  I'd been trying not to pay attention to Mr. D,  but he was kind of hard to ignore in his 
neon orange leopard-skin warm-up suit and his purple running shoes. (Like Mr. D had ever 
run a day in his immortal life.) A golden laurel wreath was tilted side ways on his curly black 
hair, which must've meant he'd won the last hand of cards. 
"What do you mean?" Thalia asked. "Who else is lost?" 
Just then, Grover trotted into the room, gr inning like crazy. He ha d a black eye and red 
lines on his face that looked  like a slap mark. "The Hunters are all moved in!" 
Chiron frowned. "The Hunters, eh? I see we ha ve much to talk about." He glanced at 
Nico. "Grover, perhaps you should take our young friend to the den and show him our 
orientation film." 
"But… Oh, right. Yes, sir." 
"Orientation film?" Nico as ked. "Is it G or PG? 'Cause Bianca is kinda strict—" 
"It's PG-13," Grover said. 
"Cool!" Nico happily followed him out of the room. 
"Now," Chiron said to Thalia and me, "perha ps you two should sit down and tell us the 
whole story." 
When we were done, Chiron turned to Mr. D. "We should launch a search for Annabeth 
immediately." 
"I'll go," Thalia and I said at the same time. Mr. D sniffed. "Certainly not!" Thalia and I both started complaining, but Mr . D held up his hand. He had that purplish 
angry fire in his eyes that usually meant so mething bad and godly was going to happen if we 
didn't shut up. 
"From what you have told me," Mr. D said, "we have broken even on this escapade. We 
have, ah, regrettably lost Annie Bell—" 
"Annabeth," I snapped. She'd gone to cam p since she was seven, and still Mr. D 
pretended not to know her name. 
"Yes, yes," he said. "And you procured a sm all annoying boy to repl ace her. So I see no 
point risking further half-bloods on a ridiculous rescue. The possibility is very great that this 
Annie girl is dead."  I wanted to strangle Mr. D. It wasn't fair Zeus had sent him here  to dry out as camp 
director for a hundred years. It was meant to  be a punishment for Mr. D's bad behavior on 
Olympus, but it ended up being a punishment for all of us. 
"Annabeth may be alive," Chiron said, but I could tell he was ha ving trouble sounding 
upbeat. He'd practically raised Annabeth all those years she was a year-round camper, before 
she'd given living with her dad and stepmom a second try. "She's very bright. If… if our 
enemies have her, she will try to play for time. She may even pretend to cooperate." 
"That's right," Thalia said. "Luke would want her alive." 
"In which case" said Mr. D, "I'm afraid she will have to be smart enough to escape on 
her own." 
I got up from the table. 
"Percy." Chiron's tone was full of warning. In the back of my mind, I knew Mr. D was 
not somebody to mess with. Even if you were an impulsive ADHD kid like me, he wouldn't 
give you any slack. But I was so angry I didn't care. 
"You're glad to lose another camper," I sa id. "You'd like it if we all disappeared!" 
Mr. D stifled a yawn. "You have a point?" "Yeah," I growled. "Just because you were sent  here as a punishment doesn't mean you 
have to be a lazy jerk! This is your civiliza tion, too. Maybe you could tr y helping out a little!" 
For a second, there was no sound except the crackle of the fire. The light reflected in 
Mr. D's eyes, giving him a sini ster look. He opened his mout h to say something—probably a 
curse that would blast me to smithereens— when Nico burst into the room, followed by 
Grover. 
"SO COOL!" Nico yelled, holding his hands out to Chiron. "You're… you're a centaur!" 
Chiron managed a nervous smile. "Yes, Mr. di Angelo, if you please. Though, I prefer 
to stay in human form in this whee lchair for, ah, first encounters." 
"And, whoa!" He looked at Mr. D. "You're the wine dude? No way!" 
Mr. D turned his eyes away from me and gave Nico a look of loathing. "The wine 
dude?" 
"Dionysus, right? Oh, wow! I've got your figurine." 
"My figurine." 
"In my game, Mythomagic. And a holofoil card, too! And even though you've only got 
like five hundred attack point s and everybody thinks you're the lamest god card, I totally think 
your powers are sweet!"  "Ah." Mr. D seemed truly perplexed, which probably saved my life. "Well, that's… 
gratifying." 
"Percy," Chiron said quickly, "you and Th alia go down to the cabins. Inform the 
campers we'll be playing capture the flag tomorrow evening." 
"Capture the flag?" I asked. "But we don't have enough—" 
"It is a tradition," Chiron  said. "A friendly match, whenever the Hunters visit." 
"Yeah," Thalia muttered. "I bet it's real friendly." 
Chiron jerked his head toward Mr. D, who wa s still frowning as Nico talked about how 
many defense points all the gods had in hi s game. "Run along now," Chiron told us. 
"Oh, right," Thalia said. "Come on, Percy." 
She hauled me out of the Big House before Dionysus could remember that he wanted to 
kill me. 
"You've already got Ares on your bad side," Thalia reminded me as we trudged toward 
the cabins. "You need another immortal enemy?" 
She was right. My first summer as a camper, I' d gotten in a fight with Ares, and now he 
and all his children wanted to kill me. I didn't need to make Dionysus mad, too. 
"Sorry," I said. "I couldn't he lp it. It's just so unfair." 
She stopped by the armory and looked out across the valley, toward the top of Half-
Blood Hill. Her pine tree was stil l there, the Golden Fleece glittering in its lowest branch. The 
tree's magic still protected the borders of camp, but it no longer used Thalia's spirit for power. 
"Percy, everything is unfair," Thal ia muttered. "Sometimes I wish…" 
She didn't finish, but her tone was so sad I fe lt sorry for her. With her ragged black hair 
and her black punk clothes, an old wool overc oat wrapped around her, she looked like some 
kind of huge raven, completely out of place in the white landscape. 
"We'll get Annabeth back," I promis ed. "I just don't know how yet." 
"First I found out that Luke is lo st," she said. "Now Annabeth—" 
"Don't think like that." 
"You're right." She straightened up. "We'll find a way." 
Over at the basketball cour t, a few of the Hunters were  shooting hoops. One of them 
was arguing with a guy from the Ares cabin. The Ares kid had his hand on his sword and the  Hunter girl looked like she was going to exchange her basket ball for a bow and arrow any 
second. 
"I'll break that up," Thalia said. "You ci rculate around the cabins. Tell everybody about 
capture the flag tomorrow." 
"All right. You should be team captain." 
"No, no," she said. "You've been at camp longer. You do it." 
"We can, uh… co-captain or something." She looked about as comfortable with  that as I felt, but she nodded. 
As she headed for the court, I said, "Hey, Thalia." "Yeah?" "I'm sorry about what happened at West over. I should've waited for you guys." 
'"S okay, Percy. I probably would've done the same thing." She shifted from foot to 
foot, like she was trying to decide whether or not to say more. "You know, you asked about 
my mom and I kinda snapped at you . It's just… I went back to find her after seven years, and I 
found out she died in Los Angeles. She, um… she was a heavy drinker, and apparently she 
was out driving late one night about tw o years ago, and…" Thalia blinked hard. 
"I'm sorry." 
"Yeah, well. It's… it's not like we were ever close. I ran away when I was ten. Best two 
years of my life were when I was running around with Luke and Annabeth. But still—" 
"That's why you had troubl e with the sun van." 
She gave me a wary look. "What do you mean?" "The way you stiffened up. You must've been  thinking about your mom, not wanting to 
get behind the wheel." 
I was sorry I'd said anything. Thalia's expression was dange rously close to Zeus's, the 
one time I'd seen him get angry—like any minute, her eyes would shoot a million volts. 
"Yeah," she muttered. "Yeah, that must've been it." She trudged off toward the court, where the Ares camper and the Hunter were trying to 
kill each other with a sword and a basketball. 
  The cabins were the weirdest collection of buildi ngs you've ever seen. Zeus and Hera's 
big white-columned buildings, Cabins One and Two, stood in the middle, with five gods'  cabins on the left and five goddesses' cabins on the right, so they all made a U around the 
central green and th e barbecue hearth. 
I made the rounds, telling ev erybody about capture the fla g. I woke up some Ares kid 
from his midday nap and he yelled at me to go away. When I asked him where Clarisse was 
he said, "Went on a quest for Chiron. Top secret!" 
"Is she okay?" 
"Haven't heard from her in a month. She's missing in action. Like your butt's gonna be if 
you don't get outta here!" 
I decided to let him go back to sleep. 
Finally I got to Cabin Three, the cabin of Poseidon. It was a low gray building hewn 
from sea stone, with shells and coral fossils im printed in the rock. Inside, it was just as empty 
as always, except for my bunk. A Minotaur horn hung on the wall next to my pillow. 
I took Annabeth's baseball cap out of my b ackpack and set it on my nightstand. I'd give 
it to her when I found her. And I would  find her. 
I took off my wristwatch and activated the shie ld. It creaked noisily as it spiraled out. 
Dr. Thorn's spikes had dented the brass in a dozen places. One gash kept the shield from 
opening all the way, so it looked like a pizza w ith two slices missing. The beautiful metal 
pictures that my brother had crafted were all banged up. In th e picture of me and Annabeth 
fighting the Hydra, it lo oked like a meteor had made a crater  in my head. I hung the shield on 
its hook, next to the Minotaur horn, but it wa s painful to look at now. Maybe Beckendorf 
from the Hephaestus cabin could fix it for me. He  was the best armorsmith in the camp. I'd 
ask him at dinner. 
I was staring at the shield when I no ticed a strange sound—water gurgling—and I 
realized there was something new in the room. At the back of the cabin was a big basin of 
gray sea rock, with a spout like the head of a fish carved in stone. Out of its mouth burst a 
stream of water, a saltwater spring that trickl ed into the pool. The water must've been hot, 
because it sent mist into the cold winter air like a sauna. It made the room feel warm and 
summery, fresh with the smell of the sea. 
I stepped up to the pool. There was no note attached or  anything, but I knew it could 
only be a gift from Poseidon. 
I looked into the water and said, "Thanks, Dad." 
The surface rippled. At the bottom of the pool, coins shimmered—a dozen or so golden 
drachma. I realized what the fountain was for. It was a reminder to keep in touch with my 
family. 
I opened the nearest window, and the wintry su nlight made a rainbow in the mist. Then 
I fished a coin out of the hot water. 
"Iris, O Goddess of the Rainbow,"  I said, "accept my offering."  I tossed a coin into the mist and it disappear ed. Then I realized I didn't know who to 
contact first. 
My mom? That would've been the "good son" thing to do, but she wouldn't be worried 
about me yet. She was used to me disappearing for days or weeks at a time. 
My father? It had been way too long, almost tw o years, since I'd actually talked to him. 
But could you even send an Iris-message to a god? I'd never tried. Would it make them mad, 
like a sales call or something? 
I hesitated. Then I made up my mind. 
"Show me Tyson," I requested. "A t the forges of the Cyclopes." 
The mist shimmered, and the image of my ha lf brother appeared. He was surrounded in 
fire, which would've been a problem if he we ren't a Cyclops. He was bent over an anvil, 
hammering a red-hot sword blade. Sparks fl ew and flames swirled around his body. There 
was a marble-framed window behind him, and it  looked out onto dark blue water—the bottom 
of the ocean. 
"Tyson!" I yelled. 
He didn't hear me at first because of the hammering and the roar of the flames. 
"TYSON!" 
He turned, and his one enormous eye widened. His face broke into a crooked yellow 
grin. "Percy!" 
He dropped the sword blade and ran at me, tr ying to give me a hug. The vision blurred 
and I instinctively lurched back. "Tyson, it's an Iris-message. I'm not really here." 
"Oh." He came back into view, look ing embarrassed. "Oh, I knew that. Yes." 
"How are you?" I asked. "How's the job?"  
His eye lit up. "Love the job! Look!" He picked up the hot sword blade with his bare 
hands. "I made this!" 
"That's really cool." "I wrote my name on it. Right there." "Awesome. Listen, do you talk to Dad much?"  
Tyson's smile faded. "Not much. Daddy is busy. He is worried about the war." 
"What do you mean?"  Tyson sighed. He stuck the sword blade out the window, where it made a cloud of 
boiling bubbles. When Tyson brought it back in, the metal was cool. "Old sea spirits making 
trouble. Aigaios. Oceanus. Those guys." 
I sort of knew what he was talking about. He meant the im mortals who ruled the oceans 
back in the days of the Titans. Before the Olym pians took over. The fact that they were back 
now, with the Titan Lord Kronos and his allies gaining st rength, was not good. 
"Is there anything I can do?" I asked.  
Tyson shook his head sadly. "We are arming th e mermaids. They need a thousand more 
swords by tomorrow." He looked at his sword bl ade and sighed. "Old spirits are protecting the 
bad boat." 
"The Princess Andromeda ?" I said. "Luke's boat?" 
"Yes. They make it hard to find. Protect it from Daddy's storms. Otherwise he would 
smash it." 
"Smashing it would be good." 
Tyson perked up, as if he'd just had another thought. "Annabeth! Is she there?" 
"Oh, well…" My heart felt like a bowling ba ll. Tyson thought Annabeth was just about 
the coolest thing since peanut butter (and he se riously loved peanut butter). I didn't have the 
heart to tell him she was missing. He'd start cr ying so bad he'd probabl y put out his fires. 
"Well, no… she's not here right now." 
"Tell her hello!" He beamed. "Hello to Annabeth!" 
"Okay." I fought back a lump in  my throat. "I'll do that." 
"And, Percy, don't worry about the bad boat. It is going away." 
"What do you mean?" 
"Panama Canal! Very far away." 
I frowned. Why would Luke take his demon- infested cruise ship all the way down 
there? The last time we'd seen him, he'd been cruising along the East Co ast, recruiting half-
bloods and training hi s monstrous army. 
"All right," I said, not feeling reassured. "That's… good. I guess." 
In the forges, a deep voice bellowed something I couldn't make out. Tyson flinched. 
"Got to get back to work! Boss will get mad. Good luck, Brother!" 
"Okay, tell Dad—"  But before I could finish, the vision shim mered and faded. I was alone again in my 
cabin, feeling even lonelier than before. 
I was pretty miserable at dinner that night. 
I mean, the food was excellent as usual. Y ou can't go wrong with ba rbecue, pizza, and 
never-empty soda goblets. The torches and braz iers kept the outdoor pavilion warm, but we 
all had to sit with our cabin mates, which mean t I was alone at the Pose idon table. Thalia sat 
alone at the Zeus table, but we couldn't sit together. Camp rules. At least the Hephaestus, 
Ares, and Hermes cabins had a few people each. Ni co sat with the Stoll brothers, since new 
campers always got stuck in the Hermes cabin if their Olympian parent was unknown. The Stoll brothers seemed to be trying to convin ce Nico that poker was a much better game than 
Mythomagic. I hoped Nico didn't have any money to lose. 
The only table that really seemed to be having a good time was the Artemis table. The 
Hunters drank and ate and laughed like one big happy family. Zoe sat at the head like she was the mama. She didn't laugh as much as the others, but she did smile from time to time. Her silver lieutenant's band glittered in the dark br aids of her hair. I thought she looked a lot nicer 
when she smiled. Bianca di Angelo seemed to be  having a great time. She was trying to learn 
how to arm wrestle from the big girl who'd pick ed a fight with the Ares kid on the basketball 
court. The bigger girl was beating her ev ery time, but Bianca didn't seem to mind. 
When we'd finished eating, Chiron made the customary toast to the gods and formally 
welcomed the Hunters of Artemis. The clapping  was pretty halfhearted. Then he announced 
the "good will" capture-t he-flag game for tomorrow night, wh ich got a lot better reception. 
Afterward, we all trailed back to our cabin s for an early, winter lights out. I was 
exhausted, which meant I fell as leep easily. That was the good pa rt. The bad part was, I had a 
nightmare, and even by my standards it was a whopper. 
Annabeth was on a dark hillside, shroude d in fog. It almost seemed like the 
Underworld, because I immediately felt claust rophobic and I couldn't see the sky above—just 
a close, heavy darkness, as if I were in a cave. 
Annabeth struggled up the hill. Old broken Greek columns of black marble were 
scattered around, as though something had blasted a huge building to rums. 
"Thorn!" Annabeth cried. "Where are you?  Why did you bring me here?" She 
scrambled over a section of broken wall and came to the crest of the hill. 
She gasped. 
There was Luke. And he was in pain.  He was crumpled on the rocky ground, trying to rise. The blackness seemed to be 
thicker around him, fog swir ling hungrily. His clothes were in tatters and his face was 
scratched and drenched with sweat, 
"Annabeth!" he called. "Help me! Please!" 
She ran forward. 
I tried to cry out: He's a traitor! Don't trust him ! 
But my voice didn't work in the dream. 
Annabeth had tears in her ey es. She reached down like she wanted to touch Luke's face, 
but at the last second she hesitated. 
"What happened?" she asked. 
"They left me here," Luke groaned. "Please. It's killing me." 
I couldn't see what was wrong with him. He  seemed to be str uggling against some 
invisible curse, as though the fog were squeezing him to death. 
"Why should I trust you?" Annabeth as ked. Her voice was filled with hurt. 
"You shouldn't," Luke said. "I've been terrible to you. But if you don't help me, I'll die." Let him die , I wanted to scream. Luke had tried to kill us in cold blood too many times. 
He didn't deserve anything from Annabeth. 
Then the darkness above Luke began to crumble, like a cavern roof  in an earthquake. 
Huge chunks of black rock began falling. Annabeth rushed in just as a crack appeared, and the 
whole ceiling dropped. She held it somehow—tons of rock. She kept it from collapsing on her 
and Luke just with her own strength. It was impossible. She s houldn't have been able to do 
that. 
Luke rolled free, gasping. "Thanks," he managed. 
"Help me hold it," Annabeth groaned. Luke caught his breath. His face was covere d in grime and sweat. He rose unsteadily. 
"I knew I could count on you." He began to walk away as the trembling blackness 
threatened to crush Annabeth. 
"HELP ME!" she pleaded, 
"Oh, don't worry," Luke said. "Your help is on the way. It's all part of the plan. In the 
meantime, try not to die." 
The ceiling of darkness began to crumble again, pushing Annabeth against the ground.    
I sat bolt upright in bed, claw ing at the sheets. There was no sound in my cabin except 
the gurgle of the saltwater spring. The clock on my nightstand read just after midnight. 
Only a dream, but I was sure of two things: Annabeth was in terrible danger. And Luke 
was responsible. 
  SIX 
AN OLD DEAD FRIEND COMES TO VISIT  
The next morning after breakfast, I told Grove r about my dream. We sat in the meadow 
watching the satyrs chase the wood nymphs th rough the snow. The nymphs  had promised to 
kiss the satyrs if they  got caught, but they hardly ever did. Usually the ny mph would let the 
satyr get up a full head of steam, then she'd tu rn into a snow-covered tree and the poor satyr 
would slam into it headfirst and ge t a pile of snow dumped on him. 
When I told Grover my nightmare, he starte d twirling his finger in his shaggy leg fur. 
"A cave ceiling collapsed on her?" he asked. 
"Yeah. What the heck does that mean?" 
Grover shook his head. "I don't know. But after what Zoe dreamed—" "Whoa. What do you mean? Zoe had a dream like that?" 
"I… I don't know, exactly. About three in the morning she ca me to the Big House and 
demanded to talk to Chiron. She looked really panicked." 
"Wait, how do you know this?" Grover blushed. "I was sort of cam ped outside the Artemis cabin." 
"What for?" "Just to be, you know, near them." "You're a stalker with hooves." "I am not! Anyway, I followed her to the Bi g House and hid in a bush and watched the 
whole thing. She got real upset when Argus w ouldn't let her in. It was kind of a dangerous 
scene. 
I tried to imagine that. Argus was the head  of security for camp—a big blond dude with 
eyes all over his body. He rarely showed himself unless something serious was going on. I 
wouldn't want to place bets on a fight between him and Zoe Nightshade. 
"What did she say?" I asked. 
Grover grimaced. "Well, she starts talking rea lly old-fashioned when she gets upset, so 
it was kind of hard to understand. But somethi ng about Artemis being in trouble and needing 
the Hunters. And then she called Argus a boil- brained lout… I think that's a bad thing. And 
then he called her—"  "Whoa, wait. How could Artemis be in trouble?" 
"I… well, finally Chiron came out in his pajamas and his horse tail in curlers and—" "He wears curlers in his tail?" 
Grover covered his mouth. 
"Sorry," I said. "Go on." 
"Well, Zoe said she needed permission to  leave camp immediately. Chiron refused. He 
reminded Zoe that the Hunters were supposed to stay here until they received orders from 
Artemis. And she said…" Grover gulped. "She said  'How are we to get orders from Artemis if 
Artemis is lost?'" 
"What do you mean lost? Like  she needs directions?" 
"No. I think she meant gone. Taken. Kidnapped."  "Kidnapped ?" I tried to get my mind around th at idea. "How would you kidnap an 
immortal goddess? Is that even possible?" 
"Well, yeah. I mean, it happened to Persephone." 
"But she was like, the goddess of flowers ."  
Grover looked offended. "Springtime." 
"Whatever. Artemis is a lot more powerfu l than that. Who could kidnap her? And 
why?" 
Grover shook his head mise rably. "I don't know. Kronos?" 
"He can't be that powerful already. Can he?"  The last time we'd seen Kronos, he'd been in tiny pieces. Well… we hadn't actually seen 
him. Thousands of years ago, after the big Tita n—God war, the gods had sliced him to bits 
with his own scythe and scattered his remains in Tartarus, which is like the gods' bottomless 
recycling bin for their enemies. Two summers a go, Kronos had tricked us to the very edge of 
the pit and almost pulled us in. Then last su mmer, on board Luke's demon cruise ship, we'd 
seen a golden coffin, where Luke claimed he was summoning the Titan Lord out of the abyss, 
bit by bit, every time someone new joined their cause. Kronos could influence people with 
dreams and trick them, but I didn't see how he could physically overcome Artemis if he was 
still like a pile of evil bark mulch. 
"I don't know," Grover said. "I think some body would know if Kronos had re-formed. 
The gods would be more nervous. But still, it 's weird, you having a nightmare the same night 
as Zoe. It's almost like—" 
"They're connected," I said.  Over in the frozen meadow, a satyr skidded on his hooves as he chased after a 
redheaded tree nymph. She giggled and held out her arms as he ran toward her. Pop! She 
turned into a Scotch pine and he kissed the trunk at top speed, 
"Ah, love," Grover said dreamily. 
I thought about Zoe's nightmare, which she'd had only a few hours after mine. 
"I've got to talk to Zoe," I said. 
"Um, before you do…" Grover took something out of his coat pocket. It was a three-
fold display like a travel brochure. "You re member what you said—about how it was weird 
the Hunters just happened to show up at West over Hall? I think they might've been scouting 
us." 
"Scouting us? What do you mean?" He gave me the brochure. It was about the Hunters of Artemis. The front read, A WISE 
CHOICE FOR YOUR FUTURE! Insi de were pictures of young maidens doing hunter stuff, 
chasing monsters, shooting bows. There were captions like: HEALTH BENEFITS: 
IMMORTALITY AND WHAT IT MEANS FO R YOU! and A BOY-FREE TOMORROW! 
"I found that in Annabeth's backpack," Grover said. 
I stared at him. "I don't understand." "Well, it seems to me… maybe Anna beth was thinking about joining." 
  I'd like to say I took the news well. 
The truth was, I wanted to strangle the Hunt ers of Artemis one eternal maiden at a time. 
The rest of the day I tried to keep busy, but I was worried sick abou t Annabeth. I went to 
javelin-throwing class, but the Ar es camper in charge chewed me out after I got distracted and 
threw the javelin at the target before he got out of the way. I apologized for the hole in his 
pants, but he still sent me packing. 
I visited the pegasus stables,  but Silena Beauregard fr om the Aphrodite cabin was 
having an argument with one of the Hunters,  and I decided I'd better not get involved. 
After that, I sat in the empty chariot stands  and sulked. Down at the archery fields, 
Chiron was conducting target practice. I knew he'd  be the best person to talk to. Maybe he 
could give me some advice, but something held  me back. I had a feeling Chiron would try to 
protect me, like he always did. He mi ght not tell me everything he knew. 
I looked the other direction. At the top of Half-Blood Hill, Mr. D and Argus were 
feeding the baby dragon that guarded the Golden Fleece.  Then it occurred to me: no one would be in  the Big House. There was someone else… 
something  else I could ask for guidance. 
My blood was humming in my ears as I ran in to the house and took th e stairs. I'd only 
done this once before, and I still had nightmare s about it. I opened the trap door and stepped 
into the attic. 
The room was dark and dusty and cluttered with junk, just  like I remembered. There 
were shields with monster bites out of them, and swords bent in the shapes of daemon heads, 
and a bunch of taxidermy, like a stuffe d harpy and a bright orange python. 
Over by the window, sitting on a three-legged stool, was th e shriveled-up mummy of an 
old lady in a tie-dyed hippie dress. The Oracle. 
I made myself walk toward her. I waited fo r green mist to billow from the mummy's 
mouth, like it had before, but nothing happened. 
"Hi," I said. "Uh, what's up?" 
I winced at how stupid that sounded. Not mu ch could be "up" when you're dead and 
stuck in the attic. But I knew the spirit of th e Oracle was in there somewhere. I could feel a 
cold presence in the room, like a coiled sleeping snake. 
"I have a question," I said a little louder. "I need to know about Annabeth. How can I 
save her?" 
No answer. The sun slanted through the dirty attic window, lighting the dust motes 
dancing in the air. 
I waited longer. 
Then I got angry. I was bei ng stonewalled by a corpse. 
"All right," I said. "Fine. I'll figure it out myself." 
I turned and bumped into a big table full of souvenirs. It seemed more cluttered than the 
last time I was here. Heroes stored all kinds of st uff in the attic: quest trophies they no longer 
wanted to keep in their cabins, or stuff that held painful memories. I knew Luke had stored a 
dragon claw somewhere up here—the one that had scarred his face. 
Then I noticed a pink silk scarf with a label attached to it. I pick ed up the tag and tried 
to read it: 
  SCARF OF THE GODDESS APHRODITE  
RECOVERED AT WATERLA ND, DENVER, CO.,  
BY ANNABETH CHASE AND PERCY JACKSON 
I stared at the scarf. I'd totally forgotten about it. Two years ago, Annabeth had ripped 
this scarf out of my hands and said something like, Oh, no. No love magic for you ! 
I'd just assumed she'd thrown it away. And ye t here it was. She'd kept it all this time? 
And why had she stashed it in the attic? 
I turned to the mummy. She hadn't moved, but the shadows across her face made it look 
like she was smiling gruesomely. 
I dropped the scarf and tried no t to run toward the exit. 
  That night after dinner, I was seriously ready to beat the Hunters at capture the flag. It 
was going to be a small game: only thirteen H unters, including Bianca di Angelo, and about 
the same number of campers. 
Zoe Nightshade looked pretty upset. She kept  glancing resentfully at Chiron, like she 
couldn't believe he was making her do this. Th e other Hunters didn't look too happy, either. 
Unlike last night, they weren't laughing or joki ng around. They just huddled together in the 
dining pavilion, whispering nervously to each othe r as they strapped on their armor. Some of 
them even looked like they'd been crying. I gue ss Zoe had told them about her nightmare. 
On our team, we had Beckendorf and two ot her Hephaestus guys, a few from the Ares 
cabin (though it still seemed strange that Claris se wasn't around), the Stoll brothers and Nico 
from Hermes cabin, and a few A phrodite kids. It was weird that  the Aphrodite cabin wanted 
to play. Usually they sat on the sidelines, chat ted, and checked their re flections in the river 
and stuff, but when they heard we were fi ghting the Hunters, they were raring to go. 
"I'll show them 'love is worthless,'" Silena  Beauregard grumbled as she strapped on her 
armor. "I'll pulverize them!" 
That left Thalia and me. 
"I'll take the offense," Thalia volunteered. "You take defense." 
"Oh." I hesitated, because I'd been about to say the exact same  thing, only reversed. 
"Don't you think with your shield and all, you'd be better defense?" 
Thalia already had Aegis on her arm, and even our own teammates were giving her a 
wide berth, trying not to  cower before the bronze head of Medusa.  "Well, I was thinking it woul d make better offense," Tha lia said. "Besides, you've had 
more practice at defense." 
I wasn't sure if she was teasing me. I'd had some pretty bad experiences with defense on 
capture the flag. My first year, Annabeth had put me out as a kind of bait, and I'd almost been 
gored to death with spears and killed by a hellhound. 
"Yeah, no problem," I lied. 
"Cool." Thalia turned to help some of the Aphrodite kids, who were having trouble 
suiting up their armor without breaking their nails . Nico di Angelo ran up to me with a big 
grin on his face. 
"Percy, this is awesome!" His blue-feathered bronze helmet was falling in his eyes, and 
his breastplate was about six sizes too big. I wondered if there was any way I'd looked that 
ridiculous when I'd first arri ved. Unfortunately, I probably had. 
Nico lifted his sword with effort. "D o we get to kill the other team?" 
"Well… no." 
"But the Hunters ar e immortal, right?" 
"That's only if they don't fall in battle. Besides—" 
"It would be awesome if we ju st, like, resurrected as soon as we were killed, so we 
could keep fighting, and—" 
"Nico, this is serious. Real swords. These can hurt." He stared at me, a little disappointed, and I realized that I'd just sounded like my 
mother. Whoa. Not a good sign. 
I patted Nico on the shoulder. "Hey, it's cool. Just follow the team. Stay out of Zoe's 
way. We'll have a blast." 
Chiron's hoof thundered on the pavilion floor. "Heroes!" he called. "You know the rules! Th e creek is the boundary line. Blue team—
Camp Half-Blood—shall take the west woods. Hunters of Artemis—re d team—shall take the 
east woods. I will serve as refe ree and battlefield medic. No intentional maiming, please! All 
magic items are allowed. To your positions!" 
"Sweet," Nico whispered next to me. "W hat kind of magic items? Do I get one?" 
I was about to break it to him that he didn't, when Thalia said, "Blue team! Follow me!" 
They cheered and followed. I had to run to catch up, and tripped over somebody's 
shield, so I didn't look much like a co-captain. More like an idiot.    
We set our flag at the top of Zeus's Fist. It's  this cluster of boulders  in the middle of the 
west woods that, if you look at it just the righ t way, looks like a huge fist sticking out of the 
ground. If you look at it from a ny other side, it looks like a pile of enormous deer droppings, 
but Chiron wouldn't let us call th e place the Poop Pile, especially  after it had been named for 
Zeus, who doesn't have much of a sense of humor. 
Anyway, it was a good place to set the flag. The top boulder was tw enty feet  tall and 
really hard to climb, so the flag was clearly visible, like the rule s said it had to be, and it didn't 
matter that the guards weren't allowed to stand within ten yards of it. 
I set Nico on guard duty with Beckendorf and the Stoll brothers, figuring he'd be safely 
out of the way. 
"We'll send out a decoy to the left," Thalia told the team. "Silena, you lead that." 
"Got it!" 
"Take Laurel and Jason. They're good runners . Make a wide arc around the Hunters, 
attract as many as you can. I'll take the main ra iding party around to the right and catch them 
by surprise." 
Everybody nodded. It sounded good, and Thalia said it with such confidence you 
couldn't help but believe it would work. 
Thalia looked at me. "Anything to add, Percy?" "Um, yeah. Keep sharp on defe nse. We've got four guards, two scouts. That's not much 
for a big forest. I'll be ro ving. Yell if you need help." 
"And don't leave your post!" Thalia said. 
"Unless you see a golden opportunity," I added. Thalia scowled. "Just don't leave your post." 
"Right, unless—" 
"Percy!" She touched my arm and shocked me. I mean, everybody can give static 
shocks in the winter, but when Thalia does, it hurts. I guess it's because her dad is the god of 
lightning. She's been known to fry off people's eyebrows. 
"Sorry," Thalia said, though she didn't sound particularly sorry. "Now, is everybody 
clear?" 
Everybody nodded. We broke into our smalle r groups. The horn sounded, and the game 
began.  Silena's group disappeared into the woods on the left. Thalia's group gave it a few 
seconds, then darted off toward the right. 
I waited for something to happen. I climbe d Zeus's Fist and had a good view over the 
forest. I remembered how the Hunters had stor med out of the woods when they fought the 
manticore, and I was prepared for someth ing like that—one huge charge that could 
overwhelm us. But nothing happened. 
I caught a glimpse of Silena and her two scouts. They ran through a clearing, followed 
by five of the Hunters, leading them deep in to the woods and away from Thalia. The plan 
seemed to be working. Then I spotted another clump of Hunters headin g to the right, bows 
ready. They must've spotted Thalia. 
"What's happening?" Nico demanded, trying to climb up next to me. 
My mind was racing. Thalia would never ge t through, but the Hunters were divided. 
With that many on either flank, their cente r had to be wide open. If I moved fast… 
I looked at Beckendorf. "Can you guys hold the fort?" Beckendorf snorted. "Of course." 
"I'm going in. 
The Stoll brothers and Nico cheered as I raced toward the boundary line. 
I was running at top speed and I felt great. I leaped over the creek in to enemy territory. I 
could see their silver flag up ahead, only one guard, who wasn't even looking in my direction. 
I heard fighting to my left and right, somewhere in the woods. I had it made. 
The guard turned at the last minute. It wa s Bianca di Angelo. Her eyes widened as I 
slammed into her and she we nt sprawling in the snow. 
"Sorry!" I yelled. I ripped down the silver silk flag from the tree and took off. 
I was ten yards away before Bianca managed to yell for help. I thought I was home free. 
ZIP. A silvery cord raced across my ankles and fastened to the tree next to me. A trip 
wire, fired from a bow! Before I could even  think about stopping, I went down hard, 
sprawling in the snow. 
"Percy!" Thalia yelled, o ff to my left. "What are you doing ?" 
Before she reached me, an arrow exploded at her feet and a cloud of yellow smoke 
billowed around her team. They started coughi ng and gagging. I could smell the gas from 
across the woods—the horrible smell of sulfur. 
"No fair!" Thalia gasped. "Fart arrows are unsportsmanlike!"  I got up and started running again. Only a fe w more yards to the creek and I had the 
game. More arrows whizzed past my ears. A H unter came out of nowher e and slashed at me 
with her knife, but I parried and kept running. 
I heard yelling from our side of the cree k. Beckendorf and Nico were running toward 
me. I thought they were coming to welcome me back, but then I saw they were chasing 
someone—Zoe Nightshade, racing toward me  like a cheetah, dodging campers with no 
trouble. And she had our flag in her hands. 
"No!" I yelled, and poured on the speed. 
I was two feet from the water when Zoe bo lted across to her own side, slamming into 
me for good measure. The Hunters cheered as  both sides converged on the creek. Chiron 
appeared out of the woods, looking grim. He had the Stoll brothers on his back, and it looked 
as if both of them had taken some nasty wh acks to the head. Connor Stoll had two arrows 
sticking out of his helmet like antennae. 
"The Hunters win!" Chiron announced withou t pleasure. Then he muttered, "For the 
fifty-sixth time in a row." 
"Perseus Jackson!" Thalia yelled, storming toward me. She smelled like rotten eggs, and 
she was so mad that blue sparks flickere d on her armor. Everybody cringed and backed up 
because of Aegis. It took a ll my willpower not to cower. 
"What in the name of the gods were you THINKING?" she bellowed. I balled my fists. I'd had enough bad stuff ha ppen to me for one day. I didn't need this. 
"I got the flag, Thalia!" I shook it in he r face. "I saw a chance and I took it!" 
"I WAS AT THEIR BASE!" Thalia yelled. "But the flag was gone. If you hadn't butted 
in, we would've won." 
"You had too many on you!" 
"Oh, so it's my fault?" 
"I didn't say that." 
"Argh!" Thalia pushed me, and a shock went  through my body that blew me backward 
ten feet into the water. Some  of the campers gasped. A couple of the Hunters stifled laughs. 
"Sorry!" Thalia said, turni ng pale. "I didn't mean to—" 
Anger roared in my ears. A wave erupted fr om the creek, blasting into Thalia's face and 
dousing her from head to toe. 
I stood up. "Yeah," I growled. "I didn't mean to, either." 
Thalia was breathing heavily.  "Enough!" Chiron ordered. 
But Thalia held out her spear. "You want some, Seaweed Brain?" 
Somehow, it was okay when Annabeth called me that—at least, I'd gotten used to it—
but hearing it from Thalia was not cool. 
"Bring it on, Pinecone Face!" I raised Riptide, but before I could even defend myself, Thalia ye lled, and a blast of 
lightning came down from the sky, hit her spea r like a lightning rod, and slammed into my 
chest. 
I sat down hard. There was a burning smell; I had a feeling it was my clothes. 
"Thalia!" Chiron said. "That is enough!" 
I got to my feet and willed the entire creek to rise. It swirled up, hundreds of gallons of 
water in a massive icy funnel cloud. 
"Percy!" Chiron pleaded. 
I was about to hurl it at Thalia when I saw something in the woods. I lost my anger and 
my concentration all at once. The water spla shed back into the creekbed. Thalia was so 
surprised she turned to see what I was looking at. 
Someone… something was approaching. It was shrouded in a murky green mist, but as 
it got closer, the campers and Hunters gasped. 
"This is impossible," Chiron said. I'd never heard him sound so nervous. "It… she has 
never left the attic. Never." 
And yet, the withered mummy that held the Oracle shuffled forwar d until she stood in 
the center of the group. Mist curl ed around our feet, turning the s now a sickly shade of green. 
None of us dared move. Then her voice hiss ed inside my head. Apparently everyone 
could hear it, because several clutched their hands over the ears. 
I am the sprit of Delphi , the voice said. Speaker of the propheci es of Phoebus Apollo, 
slayer of the mighty Python . 
The Oracle regarded me with its cold, dead eyes. Then she turned unmistakably toward 
Zoe Nightshade. Approach, Seeker, and ask . 
Zoe swallowed. "What must I do to help my goddess?" 
The Oracle's mouth opened, and green mist p oured out. I saw the vague image of a 
mountain, and a girl standing at the barren peak. It was Arte mis, but she was wrapped in 
chains, fettered to the rocks. She was kneeling, her hands raised as if to fend off an attacker, 
and it looked like she was in  pain. The Oracle spoke:    
Five shall go west to the goddess in chains,  
One shall be lost in the land without rain,  
The bane of Olympus shows the trail,  
Campers and Hunters combined prevail,  
The Titan's curse must one withstand,  
And one shall perish by a parent's hand . 
Then, as we were watching, the mist swirled and retreated like a grea t green serpent into 
the mummy's mouth. The Oracle sat down on a rock and became as still as she'd been in the 
attic, as if she might sit by this creek for a hundred years. 
  SEVEN  
EVERYBODY HATES ME BUT THE HORSE  
The least the Oracle could've done was walk back to the attic by herself. 
Instead, Grover and I were elected to carry he r. I didn't figure that was because we were 
the most popular. 
"Watch her head!" Grover warned as we  went up the stairs. But it was too late. 
Bonk ! I whacked her mummified face against the trapdoor frame and dust flew. 
"Ah, man." I set her down and checked for damage. "Did I break anything?" 
"I can't tell," Grover admitted. We hauled her up and set her on her tripod stool, both of us hu ffing and sweating. Who 
knew a mummy could weigh so much? 
I assumed she wouldn't talk to me, and I was right. I was relieved when we finally got 
out of there and slamme d the attic door shut. 
"Well," Grover said, "that was gross." I knew he was trying to keep things light fo r my sake, but I still felt really down. The 
whole camp would be mad at me for losing the ga me to the Hunters, and then there was the 
new prophecy from the Oracle. It was like the spirit of Delphi had gone out of her way to 
exclude me. She'd ignored my question and walked half a mile to talk to Zoe. And she'd said 
nothing, not even a hi nt, about Annabeth. 
"What will Chiron do?" I asked Grover. 
"I wish I knew." He looked wistfully out the second-floor window at the rolling hills 
covered in snow. "I wa nt to be out there." 
"Searching for Annabeth?" He had a little trouble focusing on me. Then he blushed. "Oh, right. That too. Of 
course." 
"Why?" I asked. "What were you thinking?" He clopped his hooves uneasily. "Just somethi ng the manticore said, about the Great 
Stirring. I can't help but wonder… if all t hose ancient powers are waking up, maybe… maybe 
not all of them are evil."  "You mean Pan." 
I felt kind of selfish, because I'd totally forgotten about Grover's life ambition. The 
nature god had gone missing two thousand years ago. He was rumored to have died, but the 
satyrs didn't believe that. They were determined to find him. They'd been searching in vain for 
centuries, and Grover was convinced he'd be th e one to succeed. This year, with Chiron 
putting all the satyrs on emergency duty to find half-bloods, Grover hadn't been able to 
continue his search. It must 've been driving him nuts. 
"I've let the trail go cold," he said. "I f eel restless, like I'm missing something really 
important. He's out there somewhere. I can just feel it." 
I didn't know what to say. I wanted to encourage him, but I didn't know how. My 
optimism had pretty much been trampled into the snow out there in the woods, along with our 
capture-the-flag hopes. 
Before I could respond, Thalia tromped up the stairs. She was officially not talking to 
me now, but she looked at Grover and said, "Tell Percy to get his butt downstairs." 
"Why?" I asked. 
"Did he say something?" Thalia asked Grover. 
"Um, he asked why." 
"Dionysus is calling a council of cabin lead ers to discuss the prophecy," she said. 
"Unfortunately, that includes Percy." 
The council was held around a Ping-Pong tabl e in the rec room. Dionysus waved his 
hand and supplied snacks: Cheez Whiz, crackers, a nd several bottles of re d wine. Then Chiron 
reminded him that wine was against his restrictions and most of us were underage. Mr. D 
sighed. With a snap of his fingers the wine turned to Diet Coke. Nobody drank that either. 
Mr. D and Chiron (in wheelchair form) sat at one end of the table. Zoe and Bianca di 
Angelo (who had kind of become Zoe's persona l assistant) took the other end. Thalia and 
Grover and I sat along the right, and the other head councilors —Beckendorf, Silena 
Beauregard, and the Stoll brothers—sat on the left. The Ares kids were supposed to send a 
representative, too, but all of them had gotten broken limbs (accidentally) during capture the 
flag, courtesy of the Hunters. They  were resting up in the infirmary. 
Zoe started the meeting off on a positive note. "This is pointless." 
"Cheez Whiz!" Grover gasped. He began scooping up crackers and Ping-Pong balls and 
spraying them with topping. 
"There is no time for talk," Zoe continued. "Our goddess needs us. The Hunters must 
leave immediately."  "And go where?" Chiron asked. 
"West!" Bianca said. I was amazed at how different she looked after just a few days 
with the Hunters. Her dark hair was braide d like Zoe's now, so you could actually see her 
face. She had a splash of freckles across her nose, and her dark eyes vaguely reminded me of 
someone famous, but I couldn't think who. She looked like she'd been working out, and her 
skin glowed faintly, like the other Hunters, as if she'd b een taking showers in liquid 
moonlight. "You heard the prophecy. Five shall go west to  the goddess in chains . We can get 
five hunters and go." 
"Yes," Zoe agreed. "Artemis is being held  hostage! We must find her and free her." 
"You're missing something, as usual," Thalia said. " Campers and Hunters combined 
prevail . We're supposed to do this together." 
"No!" Zoe said. "The Hunters do not need thy help." 
"Your" Thalia grumbled. "Nobody has said thy in, like, three hundred years, Zoe. Get 
with the times." 
Zoe hesitated, like she was trying to form the word correctly. " Yerrr . We do not need 
yerrr help." 
Thalia rolled her eyes. "Forget it." "I fear the prophecy says you do need our help," Chiron sa id. "Campers and Hunters 
must cooperate." 
"Or do they?" Mr. D mused, swirling his Di et Coke under his nose like it had a fine 
bouquet. " One shall be lost. One shall perish . That sounds rather nasty, doesn't it? What if 
you fail because  you try to cooperate?" 
"Mr. D," Chiron sighed, "with all du e respect, whose side are you on?" 
Dionysus raised his eyebrows. "Sorry, my d ear centaur. Just trying to be helpful." 
"We're supposed to work together," Thalia said stubbornly. "I don' t like it either, Zoe, 
but you know prophecies. You want to fight against one?" 
Zoe grimaced, but I could tell Thalia had scored a point. 
"We must not delay," Chiron warned. "Toda y is Sunday. This very Friday, December 
twenty-first, is the winter solstice." 
"Oh, joy," Dionysus muttered. "Another dull annual meeting." "Artemis must be present at the solstice," Zo e said. "She has been one of the most vocal 
on the council arguing for action against Kronos's  minions. If she is absent, the gods will 
decide nothing. We will lose another year of war preparations."  "Are you suggesting that the gods have tr ouble acting together , young lady?" Dionysus 
asked. 
"Yes, Lord Dionysus." 
Mr. D nodded. "Just checking. You're right, of course. Carry on." 
"I must agree with Zoe," sa id Chiron. "Artemis's presence  at the winter council is 
critical. We have only a week to find her. A nd possibly even more im portant: to locate the 
monster she was hunting. Now, we mu st decide who goes on this quest." 
"Three and two," I said. Everybody looked at me. Thalia even forgot to ignore me. 
"We're supposed to have five," I said, fee ling self-conscious. "Thr ee Hunters, two from 
Camp Half-Blood. That's more than fair." 
Thalia and Zoe exchanged looks. 
"Well," Thalia said. "It does make sense." Zoe grunted. "I would prefer to take all the Hunters. We will need strength of numbers." 
"You'll be retracing the goddess's path," Ch iron reminded her. "Moving quickly. No 
doubt Artemis tracked the scent of this rare monster, whatever it is, as she moved west. You 
will have to do the same. The prophecy was clear: The bane of Olympus shows the trail . What 
would your mistress say? 'Too many Hunters sp oil the scent.' A sma ll group is best." 
Zoe picked up a Ping-Pong paddle and studied it like she was deciding who she wanted 
to whack first. "This monster—the bane of Ol ympus. I have hunted at Lady Artemis's side for 
many years, yet I have no idea what this beast might be." 
Everybody looked at Dionysus, I guess because he was the only god present and gods 
are supposed to know things. He was flipping through a wine magazine, but when everyone 
got silent he glanced up, "W ell, don't look at me. I'm a young  god, remember? I don't keep 
track of all those ancient monsters and dus ty titans. They make for terrible party 
conversation." 
"Chiron," I said, "you don't have any ideas about the monster?" Chiron pursed his lips. "I have several id eas, none of them good. And none of them 
quite make sense. Typhon, for instance, could fit this description. He was truly a bane of 
Olympus. Or the sea monster Keto. But if either of these were stir ring, we would know it. 
They are ocean monsters the size of skyscraper s. Your father, Poseidon, would already have 
sounded the alarm. I fear this monster may be more elusive. Perhaps even more powerful." 
"That's some serious danger you're facing," Connor Stoll said. (I liked how he said you 
and not we.) "It sounds like at least two of the five are going to die."  "One shall be lost in the land without rain"  Beckendorf said. "If I were you, I'd stay out 
of the desert." 
There was a muttering of agreement. 
"And the Titan's curse must one withstand," Silena said. "What could that mean?" I saw Chiron and Zoe exchange a nervous look, but whatever they were thinking, they 
didn't share it. 
"One shall perish by a parent's hand ," Grover said in between bites of Cheez Whiz and 
Ping-Pong balls. "How is that possibl e? Whose parent would kill them?" 
There was heavy silence around the table. 
I glanced at Thalia and wondered if she wa s thinking the same thing I was. Years ago, 
Chiron had had a prophecy about the next child of the Big Three—Zeus, Poseidon, or 
Hades—who turned sixteen. Supposedly, that kid would make a decision that would save or 
destroy the gods forever. Because of that, the Bi g Three had taken an oa th after World War II 
not to have any more kids. But Thalia and I had been born anyway, and now we were both 
getting close to sixteen. 
I remembered a conversation I'd had last year with Annabeth. I'd asked her, if I was so 
potentially dangerous, why the gods didn't just kill me. 
Some of the gods would like to kill you , she'd said. But they're afraid of offending 
Poseidon. 
Could an Olympian parent turn against his half-blood child? Would it sometimes be 
easier just to let them die? If there were ever any half-bloods who needed to worry about that, 
it was Thalia and me. I wondered if maybe I shoul d've sent Poseidon that seashell pattern tie 
for Father's Day after all. 
"There will be deaths," Chiron decided. "That much we know." 
"Oh, goody!" Dionysus said. 
Everyone looked at him. He glanced up innocently from the pages of Wine Connoisseur  
magazine. "Ah, pinot noir is making a comeback. Don't mind me." 
"Percy is right," Silena Beauregard said. "Two campers should go." 
"Oh, I see," Zoe said sarcastically. "And I suppose you wish to volunteer?" 
Silena blushed. "I'm not going anywhere with the Hunters. Don't look at me!" 
"A daughter of Aphrodite does not wish to be  looked at," Zoe scoffed. "What would thy 
mother say?" 
Silena started to get out of her chair, but the Stol l brothers pulled her back.  "Stop it," Beckendorf said. He was a big guy with a bigger voice. He didn't talk much, 
but when he did, people tended to listen. "Let's start with the Hunters.  Which three of you will 
go?" 
Zoe stood. "I shall go, of course, and I will take Phoebe. She is our best tracker." 
"The big girl who likes to hit people on the head?" Travis Stoll asked cautiously. 
Zoe nodded. 
"The one who put the arrows in  my helmet?" Connor added.. 
"Yes," Zoe snapped. "Why?" "Oh, nothing," Travis said. "Just that we have a T-shirt for her from the camp store." He 
held up a big silver T-shirt that said ARTEMIS THE MOON GODD ESS, FALL HUNTING 
She was admiring it. You want to give it to her?" 
I knew the Stolls were up to something. They always were. But I guess Zoe didn't know 
them as well as I did. She just sighed and to ok the T-shirt. "As I was saying, I will take 
Phoebe. And I wish Bianca to go." 
Bianca looked stunned. "Me? But… I' m so new. I wouldn't be any good." 
"You will do fine," Zoe insisted. "There is no better way to prove thyself." Bianca closed her mouth. I felt kind of sorry for her. I remembered my first quest when 
I was twelve. I had felt totally unprepared. A little honored, maybe, bu t a lot resentful and 
plenty scared. I figured the same things we re running around in Bianca's head right now. 
"And for campers?" Chiron asked. His eyes met mine, but I couldn't tell what he was 
thinking. 
"Me!" Grover stood up so fast he bumped the Ping-Pong table. He brushed cracker 
crumbs and Ping-Pong ball scraps off his lap. "Anything to help Artemis!" 
Zoe wrinkled her nose. "I think not, satyr. You are not even a half-blood." 
"But he is a camper," Thalia said. "And he's got a satyr's senses and woodland magic. 
Can you play a tracker's song yet, Grover?" 
"Absolutely!" 
Zoe wavered. I didn't know what a tracker's s ong was, but apparent ly Zoe thought it was 
a good thing. 
"Very well," Zoe said. "And the second camper?" 
"I'll go." Thalia stood and looked ar ound, daring anyone to question her.  Now, okay, maybe my math skills weren't the best, but it suddenly occurred to me that 
we'd reached the number five, and I wasn't in th e group. "Whoa, wait a sec, " I said. "I want to 
go too." 
Thalia said nothing. Chiron was still studying me, his eyes sad. 
"Oh," Grover said, suddenly aware of the pr oblem. "Whoa, yeah, I fo rgot! Percy has to 
go. I didn't mean… I'll stay. Percy should go in my place." 
"He cannot," Zoe said. "He is a boy. I won' t have Hunters traveling with a boy." 
"You traveled here with me," I reminded her. 
"That was a short-term emergency, and it was ordered by the goddess. I will not go 
across country and fight many dange rs in the company of a boy." 
"What about Grover?" I demanded. 
Zoe shook her head. "He does not count. He's a satyr. He is not technically a boy." 
"Hey!" Grover protested. "I have to go," I said. "I need  to be on this quest." 
"Why?" Zoe asked. "Because of thy friend Annabeth?" 
I felt myself blushing. I hated that everyone was looking at me ."No! I mean, partly.I just 
feel like I'm supposed to go!" 
Nobody rose to my defense. Mr. D looked bor ed, still reading his magazine. Silena, the 
Stoll brothers, and Beckendorf were staring at the table. Bianca gave me a look of pity. 
"No," Zoe said flatly. "I insist upon this. I will take a satyr if I must, but not a male 
hero." 
Chiron sighed. "The quest is for Artemis. The Hunters should be  allowed to approve 
their companions." 
My ears were ringing as I sa t down. I knew Grover and some of the others were looking 
at me sympathetically, but 
I couldn't meet their eyes. I just sat there as Chiron concluded the council. 
"So be it," he said. "Thalia  and Grover will accompany Zoe, Bianca, and Phoebe. You 
shall leave at first light. And may the gods "—he glanced at Dionysus—"present company 
included, we hope—be with you." 
   I didn't show up for dinner that night, which was a mistake, because Chiron and Grover 
came looking for me. 
"Percy, I'm so sorry!" Grover said, sitting next to me on the bunk. "I didn't know 
they'd—that you'd—Honest!" 
He started to sniffle, and I figured if I didn't cheer him up he'd either start bawling or 
chewing up my mattress. He tends to eat household objects whenever he gets upset. 
"It's okay," I lied. "Really. It's fine." 
Grover's lower lip trembled. "I wasn't ev en thinking… I was so focused on helping 
Artemis. But I promise, I'll look everywhere for Annabeth. If I can find her, I will." 
I nodded and tried to ignore the big crat er that was opening in my chest. 
"Grover," Chiron said, "perhaps you'd let me have a word with Percy?" 
"Sure," he sniffled. 
Chiron waited, 
"Oh," Grover said. "You mean alone. Sure, Ch iron." He looked at me miserably. "See? 
Nobody needs a goat." 
He trotted out the door, bl owing his nose on his sleeve. 
Chiron sighed and knelt on his horse legs . "Percy, I don't pretend to understand 
prophecies." 
"Yeah," I said. "Well, maybe that's because they don't make any sense." 
Chiron gazed at the saltwater spring gurgling in the corner of the room. "Thalia would 
not have been my first choice to go on this  quest. She's too impetuous. She acts without 
thinking. She is too sure of herself" 
"Would you have chosen me?" "Frankly, no," he said. "You a nd Thalia are much alike." 
"Thanks a lot." 
He smiled. "The difference is that you are less sure of yourself than Thalia. That could 
be good or bad. But one thing I can say: both of  you together would be a dangerous thing." 
"We could handle it." 
"The way you handled it at the creek tonight?" 
I didn't answer. He'd nailed me.  "Perhaps it is for the best," Chiron mu sed. "You can go home to your mother for the 
holidays. If we need you, we can call." 
"Yeah," I said. "Maybe." 
I pulled Riptide out of my pocket and set it on my nightstand. It didn't seem that I'd be 
using it for anything but writing Christmas cards. 
When he saw the pen, Chiron grimaced. "It' s no wonder Zoe doesn't want you along, I 
suppose. Not while you're carrying that particular weapon." 
I didn't understand what he meant. Then I re membered something he'd told me a long 
time ago, when he first gave me the magic sword: It has a long and tragic history, which we 
need not go into . 
I wanted to ask him about that, but then he  pulled a golden drachma from his saddlebag 
and tossed it to me. "Call your mother, Pe rcy. Let her know you' re coming home in the 
morning. And, ah, for what it's worth… I almost  volunteered for this quest myself. I would 
have gone, if not for the last line." 
"One shall perish by a parent's hand . Yeah." 
I didn't need to ask. I knew Chiron's dad was Kronos, the evil Titan Lord himself. The 
line would make perfect sense if Chiron we nt on the quest. Kronos didn't care for anyone, 
including his own children. 
"Chiron," I said. "You know what this Titan's curse is, don't you?" 
His face darkened. He made a claw over his heart and pushed outward—an ancient 
gesture for warding off evil. "Let us hope th e prophecy does not mean  what I think. Now, 
good night, Percy. And your time will come. I'm convi nced of that. There's no need to rush." 
He said your time the way people did when they meant your death . I didn't know if 
Chiron meant it that way, but the look in his eyes made me scared to ask. 
  I stood at the saltwater spring, rubbing Chiron's coin in my hand and trying to figure out 
what to say to my mom. I really wasn't in the mood to have one more adult tell me that doing 
nothing was the greatest thi ng I could do, but I figured my mom deserved an update. 
Finally, I took a deep breath and threw in  the coin. "O goddess, accept my offering." 
The mist shimmered. The light from the ba throom was just enough to make a faint 
rainbow. 
"Show me Sally Jackson," I said. "Upper East Side, Manhattan." 
And there in the mist was a scene I did not expect. My mom was s itting at our kitchen 
table with some… guy. They were laughing hyste rically. There was a big stack of textbooks  between them. The man was, I don't know, thir ty-something, with longi sh salt-and-pepper 
hair and a brown jacket over a black T-shirt.  He looked like an actor—like a guy who might 
play an undercover cop on television. 
I was too stunned to say anyt hing, and fortunately, my mom and the guy were too busy 
laughing to notice my Iris-message. 
The guy said, "Sally, you're a riot. You want some more wine?" 
"Ah, I shouldn't. You go ahead if you want." 
"Actually, I'd better use your bathroom. May I?" "Down the hall," she sa id, trying not to laugh. 
The actor dude smiled and got up and left. 
"Mom!" I said. 
She jumped so hard she almost knocked her textbooks off the table. Finally she focused 
on me. "Percy! Oh, honey! Is everything okay?" 
"What are you doing?" I demanded. 
She blinked. "Homework." Then she seemed  to understand the look on my face. "Oh, 
honey, that's just Paul—um, Mr. Blofis. He's in my writing seminar." 
"Mr. Blowfish?" "Blofis . He'll be back in a minute, Percy. Tell me what's wrong." 
She always knew when something was wrong. I told her about Annabeth. The other 
stuff too, but mostly it boiled down to Annabeth. 
My mother's eyes teared up. I could tell she was trying hard to keep it together for my 
sake. "Oh, Percy…" 
"Yeah. So they tell me there's nothing I can do. I guess I'll be coming home." She turned her pencil around in her fingers. "Percy, as much as I want you to come 
home"—she sighed like she was mad at herself—"a s much as I want you to be safe, I want 
you to understand something. You need to do whatever you think you have to." 
I stared at her. "What do you mean?" 
"I mean, do you really, deep down, believe that you have to help save her? Do you think 
it's the right thing to do? Because I know one th ing about you, Percy. Your heart is always in 
the right place. Listen to it." 
"You're… you're telling me to go?"  My mother pursed her lips. "I'm telling you that… you're getting too old for me to tell 
you what to do. I'm telling you that I'll support you, even if what you decide to do is 
dangerous. I can't believe I'm saying this." 
"Mom—" 
The toilet flushed down the hall in our apartment. "I don't have much time," my mom said. "Per cy, whatever you decide, I love you. And I 
know  you'll do what's best for Annabeth." 
"How can you be sure?" "Because she'd do the same for you." 
And with that, my mother waved her hand over the mist, and the connection dissolved, 
leaving me with one final image of her ne w friend, Mr. Blowfish, smiling down at her. 
I don't remember falling asleep, but I remember the dream. 
I was back in that barren cave, the ceiling heavy and low above me. Annabeth was 
kneeling under the weight of a dark mass that looked like a pile of boulders. She was too tired 
even to cry out. Her legs trembled. Any second,  I knew she would run out of strength and the 
cavern ceiling would collapse on top of her. 
"How is our mortal guest?" a male voice boomed. It wasn't Kronos. Kronos's voice was raspy and metallic, like a knife scraped across 
stone. I'd heard it taunting me many times before in my dreams. But this voice was deeper and 
lower, like a bass guitar. Its force made the ground vibrate. 
Luke emerged from the shadows. He ran to  Annabeth, knelt besi de her, then looked 
back at the unseen man. "She 's fading. We must hurry." 
The hypocrite. Like he really cared what happened to her. 
The deep voice chuckled. It belonged to some one in the shadows, at the edge of my 
dream. Then a meaty hand thrust someone fo rward into the light—Artemis—her hands and 
feet bound in celestial bronze chains. 
I gasped. Her silvery dress was torn and tatte red. Her face and arms were cut in several 
places, and she was bleeding ichor, the golden blood of the gods. 
"You heard the boy," said the ma n in the shadows. "Decide!" 
Artemis's eyes flashed with anger. I didn't know why she just didn' t will the chains to 
burst, or make herself disappear, but she didn't s eem able to. Maybe the chains prevented her, 
or some magic about this dark, horrible place.  The goddess looked at Annabeth and her e xpression changed to concern and outrage. 
"How dare you torture a maiden like this!" 
"She will die soon," Luke said. "You can save her." 
Annabeth made a weak sound of protest. My heart felt like it was being twisted into a 
knot. I wanted to run to her, but I couldn't move. 
"Free my hands," Artemis said. Luke brought out his sword, Backbiter. With  one expert strike, he broke the goddess's 
handcuffs. 
Artemis ran to Annabeth and took the burde n from her shoulders. Annabeth collapsed 
on the ground and lay there shiver ing. Artemis staggered, trying to  support the weight of the 
black rocks. 
The man in the shadows chuckled. "You are as  predictable as you were easy to beat, 
Artemis." 
"You surprised me," the goddess said, strain ing under her burden. "It will not happen 
again." 
"Indeed it will not," the man said. "Now you are out of the way for good! I knew you 
could not resist helping a young maiden. That is, after all, your specialty, my dear." 
Artemis groaned "You know nothing of mercy, you swine." 
"On that," the man said, "we can agree. Luke, you may kill the girl now." 
"No!'" Artemis shouted. Luke hesitated. "She—she may yet be useful, sir.. Further bait." 
"Bah! You truly believe that?" 
"Yes, General. They will come for her. I'm sure." 
The man considered. "Then the dracaenae can guard her here. Assuming she does not 
die from her injuries, you may keep her alive unt il winter solstice. After that, if our sacrifice 
goes as planned, her life will be meaningless. The lives of all mortals will be meaningless." 
Luke gathered up Annabeth's listless body and carried her away from the goddess. 
"You will never find the monster you seek," Artemis said. "Your plan will fail." 
"How little you know, my young goddess," the man in the shadows said. "Even now, 
your darling attendants begin thei r quest to find you. They shall pl ay directly into my hands. 
Now, if you'll excuse us, we have a long jour ney to make. We must greet your Hunters and 
make sure their quest is… challenging."  The man's laughter echoed in the darkness, shaking the ground until it seemed the whole 
cavern ceiling would collapse. 
I woke with a start. I was sure I'd hear d a loud banging. I looke d around the cabin. It 
was dark outside. The salt spring  still gurgled. No other sounds but the hoot of an owl in the 
woods and the distant surf on the beach. In th e moonlight, on my night stand was Annabeth's 
New York Yankees cap. I stared at it for a second and then:BANG BANG. 
Someone, or something, was pounding on my door . I grabbed Riptide and got out of 
bed. 
"Hello?" I called. THUMP. THUMP.I crept to the door. I uncapped the blade, flung open the door, a nd found myself face-to -face with a black 
pegasus. 
Whoa, boss ! Its voice spoke in my mind as it cl opped away from the sword blade. I 
don't wanna be a horse-ke-bob ! 
Its black wings spread in alarm, a nd the wind buffeted me back a step, 
"Blackjack," I said, relieved but a little irritated. "It's the middle of the night!" 
Blackjack huffed. Ain't either, boss. It's five in the morning. What you still sleeping for ? 
"How many times have I told  you? Don't call me boss." 
Whatever you say, boss. You're the man. You're my number one . I rubbed the sleep out 
of my eyes and tried not to let the pegasus re ad my thoughts. That's the problem with being 
Poseidon's son: since he created horses out of  sea foam, I can understand most equestrian 
animals, but they can understand me, too. Sometimes, like in Blackjacks case, they kind of 
adopt me. 
See, Blackjack had been a captive on board Luke's ship last summer, until we'd caused a 
little distraction that allowed him to escape. I'd r eally had very little to do with it, seriously, 
but Blackjack credited me with saving him. 
"Blackjack," I said, "you're suppos ed to stay in the stables." 
Meh, the stables. You see Chiron staying in the stables?  
"Well… no." 
Exactly. Listen, we got another li ttle sea friend needs your help.  
"Again?" Yeah. I told the hippocampi I'd come get you.   I groaned. Anytime I was anywhere near th e beach, the hippocampi would ask me to 
help them with their problems. And they ha d a lot of problems. Beached whales, porpoises 
caught in fishing nets, mermaids with hangn ails—they'd call me to come underwater and 
help. 
"All right," I said. "I'm coming." 
You're the best, boss.  
"And don't call me boss!" 
Blackjack whinnied softly. It might've been a laugh. 
I looked back at my comfortable bed. My bronze shield still hung on the wall, dented 
and unusable. And on my nightstand was Annabeth's magic Yankees cap. On an impulse, I 
stuck the cap in my pocket. I gue ss I had a feeling, even then, th at I wasn't coming back to my 
cabin for a long, long time. 
   EIGHT 
I MAKE A DANGEROUS PROMISE  
Blackjack gave me a ride down the beach, a nd I have to admit it was cool. Being on a 
flying horse, skimming over the wa ves at a hundred miles an hour  with the wind in my hair 
and the sea spray in my face—hey, it beats waterskiing any day. 
Here. Blackjack slowed and turned in a circle. Straight down. 
"Thanks." I tumbled off his back  and plunged into the icy sea. 
I'd gotten more comfortable doing stunts like that  the past couple of years. I could pretty 
much move however I wanted to  underwater, just by willing th e ocean currents to change 
around me and propel me along, I could breathe  underwater, no problem, and my clothes 
never got wet unless I wanted them to. 
I shot down into the darkness. Twenty, thirty, forty feet. The pressure wasn 't uncomfortable. I'd never tried to push 
it—to see if there was a limit to  how deep I could dive. I knew most regular humans couldn't 
go past two hundred feet without crumpling like an  aluminum can. I should've been blind, too, 
this deep in the water at night, but I could see the heat from living forms, and the cold of the 
currents. It's hard to describe . It wasn't like regular seeing, bu t I could tell where everything 
was. 
As I got closer to the bottom, I saw thr ee hippocampi—fish-tailed horses—swimming in 
a circle around an overturned boa t. The hippocampi were beautiful  to watch. Their fish tails 
shimmered in rainbow colors, glowing phosphore scent. Their manes were white, and they 
were galloping through the water the way ner vous horses do in a thunderstorm. Something 
was upsetting them. 
I got closer and saw the problem. A dark shape—some kind of animal—was wedged 
halfway under the boat and tangled in a fishing ne t, one of those big nets  they use on trawlers 
to catch everything at once. I hated those th ings. It was bad enough they drowned porpoises 
and dolphins, but they also occasionally caught mythological animals. When the nets got 
tangled, some lazy fishermen would just cut them loose and let the trapped animals die. 
Apparently this poor creature had been mucking around on the bottom of Long Island 
Sound and had somehow gotten itself tangled in th e net of this sunken fishing boat. It had 
tried to get out and managed to get even mo re hopelessly stuck, shif ting the boat in the 
process. Now the wreckage of the hull, which was resting against a big rock, was teetering 
and threatening to collapse on top of the tangled animal. 
The hippocampi were swimming around franticall y, wanting to help but not sure how. 
One was trying to chew the net, but hippocampi  teeth just aren't meant for cutting rope. 
Hippocampi are really strong, but they don't have hands, and they're not (shhh) all that smart.  Free it, lord ! A hippocampus said when it saw me. The others joined in, asking the 
same thing. 
I swam in for a closer look at the tangled creature. At first I thought it was a young 
hippocampus. I'd rescued several of them before. But then I heard a strange sound, something 
that did not belong underwater: 
"Mooooooo!" 
I got next to the thing and saw that it was a cow. I mean… I'd heard of sea cows, like 
manatees and stuff, but this re ally was a cow with the back e nd of a serpent. The front half 
was a calf—a baby, with black fur and big, sad brown eyes an d a white muzzle—and its back 
half was a black-and-brown snaky tail with fi ns running down the top and bottom, like an 
enormous eel. 
"Whoa, little one," I said. "Where did you come from?" The creature looked at me sadly. "Moooo!" But I couldn't understand its thoughts. I only speak horse. 
We don't know what it is, lord , one of the hippocampi said. Many strange things are 
stirring. 
"Yeah," I murmured. "So I've heard." 
I uncapped Riptide, and the sword grew to full length in my hands, its bronze blade 
gleaming in the dark. 
The cow serpent freaked out and started strugglin g against the net, its eyes full of terror. 
"Whoa!" I said. "I'm not going to hurt you! Just let me cut the net." 
But the cow serpent thrashed around and got even more tangl ed. The boat started to tilt, 
stirring up the muck on the sea bottom and thr eatening to topple onto the cow serpent. The 
hippocampi whinnied in a panic and thrashed in the water, which didn't help. 
"Okay, okay!" I said. I put away the sword and started speaking as ca lmly as I could so 
the hippocampi and the cow serpent would stop pa nicking. I didn't know if it was possible to 
get stampeded underwater, but I didn't really wa nt to find out. "It's cool. No sword. See? No 
sword. Calm thoughts. Sea grass.  Mama cows. Vegetarianism." 
I doubted the cow serpent understood what I was saying, but it responde d to the tone of 
my voice. The hippocampi were still skittish, but  they stopped swirling around me quite so 
fast. 
Free it, lord ! they pleaded. 
"Yeah," I said. "I got that part. I'm thinking."  But how could I free the cow serpent when she (I decided it was probably a "she") 
panicked at the sight of a blade? It was li ke she'd seen swords before and knew how 
dangerous they were. 
"All right," I told the hippocampi. "I need all of you to push exac tly the way I tell you." 
First we started with the boat. It wasn't easy, but with the strength of three horsepower, 
we managed to shift the wreckage so it was no longer threatening to collapse on the baby cow 
serpent. Then I went to work on the net, unta ngling it section by section, getting lead weights 
and fishing hooks straightened out, yanking out knots around the cow serpent's hooves. It took 
forever—I mean, it was worse than the time I'd had to untangle all my video game controller 
wires. The whole time, I kept talking to the cow fish, telling her ev erything was okay while 
she mooed and moaned. 
"It's okay, Bessie," I said. Don't ask me why I started calling her that. It just seemed like 
a good cow name. "Good cow. Nice cow." 
Finally, the net came off and the cow serpen t zipped through the water and did a happy 
somersault. 
The hippocampi whinnied with joy. Thank you, lord !  
"Moooo!"The cow serpent nuzzled me and gave me the big brown eyes. 
"Yeah," I said. "That's okay. Nice co w. Well… stay out of trouble." 
Which reminded me, I'd been underwater how long?  An hour, at least. I had to get back 
to my cabin before Argus or the harpies discovered I was breaking curfew. 
I shot to the surface and broke through. Im mediately, Blackjack zoomed down and let 
me catch hold of his neck. He lifted me into the air and took me back toward the shore.  
Success, boss ? 
"Yeah. We rescued a baby… something or othe r. Took forever. Almost got stampeded." 
Good deeds are always dangerous, boss. You saved my sorry mane, didn't you?  
I couldn't help thinking about my dream, with Annabeth crum pled and lifeless in Luke's 
arms. Here I was rescuing baby monsters, but I couldn't save my friend. 
As Blackjack flew back toward my cabin, I happened to glance at the dining pavilion. I 
saw a figure—a boy hunkered down behind a Gr eek column, like he was hiding from 
someone. 
It was Nico, but it wasn't even dawn yet. Nowhere near time for breakfast. What was he 
doing up there? 
I hesitated. The last thing I wanted was more time for Nico to tell me about his 
Mythomagic game. But something was wrong. I could tell by the way he was crouching.  "Blackjack," I said, "set me down over there, will you? Behind that column." 
I almost blew it. I was coming up the steps behind Nico. He didn't see me at all. He was behind a 
column, peeking around the corner, all his attenti on focused on the dining area. I was five feet 
away from him, and I was about to say What are you doing ? real loud, when it occurred to me 
that he was pulling a Grover: he was spying on the Hunters. 
There were voices—two girls talk ing at one of the dining ta bles. At this ungodly hour of 
the morning? Well, unless you're the goddess of dawn, I guess. 
I took Annabeth's magic cap out  of my pocket and put it on. 
I didn't feel any different, but when I raised my arms I couldn't see them. I was 
invisible. 
I crept up to Nico and sneaked around him. I co uldn't see the girls very well in the dark, 
but I knew their voices: Zoe and Bianca.  It sounded like they were arguing. 
"It cannot  be cured," Zoe was saying. "Not quickly, at any rate." 
"But how did it happen?" Bianca asked. "A foolish prank," Zoe growled. "Those St oll boys from the Hermes cabin. Centaur 
blood is like acid. Everyone knows that. They sp rayed the inside of that Artemis Hunting 
Tour T-shirt with it." 
"That's terrible!" 
"She will live," Zoe said. "But she'll be be dridden for weeks with horrible hives. There 
is no way she can go. It's up to me… and thee." 
"But the prophecy," Bianca sa id. "If Phoebe can't go, we onl y have four. We'll have to 
pick another." 
"There is no time," Zoe said. "We must leave at first light. That's immediately. Besides, 
the prophecy said we would lose one." 
"In the land without rain," Bianca sa id, "but that can't be here." 
"It might be," Zoe said, though she didn' t sound convinced. "The camp has magic 
borders. Nothing, not even weather, is  allowed in without permission. It could  be a land 
without rain." 
"But—"  "Bianca, hear me." Zoe's voice was strained. "I… I can't explain, but I have a sense that 
we should not  pick someone else. It would be too da ngerous. They would meet an end worse 
than Phoebe's. I don't want Chiron choosing a camper as our fifth companion. And… I don't 
want to risk another Hunter." 
Bianca was silent. "You should tell Th alia the rest of your dream." 
"No. It would not help." 
"But if your suspicions are correct, about the General—" 
"I have thy word not to talk about that,"  Zoe said. She sounded really anguished. "We 
will find out soon enough. Now come. Dawn is breaking." 
Nico scooted out of their wa y. He was faster than me. 
As the girls sprinted down the steps, Zoe almost ran into me. She froze, her eyes 
narrowing. Her hand crept toward her bow, but then  Bianca said, "The lights of the Big House 
are on. Hurry!" 
And Zoe followed her out of the pavilion. 
I could tell what Nico was thinking. He t ook a deep breath and was about to run after 
his sister when I took off the in visibility cap and said, "Wait." 
He almost slipped on the icy steps as he spun around to find me. "Where did you come 
from?" 
"I've been here the whole time. Invisible." 
He mouthed the word invisible . "Wow. Cool." 
"How did you know Zoe and your sister were here?" 
He blushed. "I heard them wa lk by the Hermes cabin. I don't… I don't sleep too well at 
camp. So I heard footsteps, and them wh ispering. And so I kind of followed." 
"And now you're thinking about following them on the quest," I guessed. 
"How did you know that?" 
"Because if it was my sister, I'd probably be thinking the same thing. But you can't." He looked defiant. "Because I'm too young?" 
"Because they won't let you. They'll catch you and send you back here. And… yeah, 
because you're too young. You remember the manticore? There will be lots more like that. 
More dangerous. Some of the heroes will die."  He shoulders sagged. He shifted from foot  to foot. "Maybe you're right. But, but you 
can go for me." 
"Say what?" 
"You can turn invisible. You can go!" 
"The Hunters don't like boys," I reminded him. "If they find out—" 
"Don't let them find out. Follow them invisibly. Keep an eye on my sister! You have to. 
Please?" 
"Nico—" 
"You're planning to go anyway, aren't you?" 
I wanted to say no. But he looked me in th e eyes, and I somehow couldn't lie to him. 
"Yeah," I said. "I have to find Annabeth. I have  to help, even if they don't want me to." 
"I won't tell on you," he said. "But you have  to promise to keep my sister safe." 
"I… that's a big thing to promise, Nico, on a trip like this. Besides, she's got Zoe, 
Grover, and Thalia—" 
"Promise," he insisted. "I'll do my best. I promise that." 
"Get going, then!" he said. "Good luck!" 
It was crazy. I wasn't packed. I had nothing but the cap and the sword and the clothes I 
was wearing. I was supposed to be going home to Manhattan this morning. "Tell Chiron—" 
"I'll make something up." Nico smiled crookedly. "I'm good at that. Go on!" 
I ran, putting on Annabeth's cap. As the sun came up, I turned invisible. I hit the top of 
Half-Blood Hill in time to se e the camp's van disappearing down the farm road, probably 
Argus taking the quest group into the cit y. After that they wo uld be on their own. 
I felt a twinge of guilt, and stupidity, too. How was I supposed to keep up with them. 
Run? 
Then I heard the beating of huge wings. Blackja ck landed next to me. He began casually 
nuzzling a few tufts of grass that stuck through the ice. 
If I was guessing, boss, I'd say you need a getaway horse. You interested?  
A lump of gratitude stuck in my throat , but I managed to say, "Yeah. Let's fly."  NINE  
I LEARN HOW TO GROW ZOMBIES  
The thing about flying on a pegasus during the daytime is that if you're not careful, you 
can cause a serious traffic acci dent on the Long Island Expressw ay. I had to keep Blackjack 
up in the clouds, which were, fortunately, pretty low in the winter. We darted around, trying 
to keep the white Camp Half-Blood van in sight. And if it was cold  on the ground, it was 
seriously cold in the air, w ith icy rain stinging my skin. 
I was wishing I'd brought some of that Camp Half-Blood orange thermal underwear 
they sold in the camp store, but  after the story about  Phoebe and the centa ur-blood T-shirt, I 
wasn't sure I trusted their products anymore. 
We lost the van twice, but I had a pretty good sense that they would go into Manhattan 
first, so it wasn't too difficult to pick up their trail again. 
Traffic was bad with the holidays and all. It was mid morning before they got into the 
city. I landed Blackjack near the top of the Chrysler Buil ding and watched the white camp 
van, thinking it would pull into the bu s station, but it just kept driving. 
"Where's Argus taking them?" I muttered. 
Oh, Argus ain't driving, boss , Blackjack told me. That girl is . 
"Which girl?" 
The Hunter girl. With the si lver crown thing in her hair.  
"Zoe?" 
That's the one. Hey, look! There's a donut shop. Can we get something to go?  
I tried explaining to Blackjack  that taking a flying horse to a donut shop would give 
every cop in there a heart attack, but he didn't seem to get it. Meanwhile, the van kept snaking 
its way toward the Lincoln Tunnel.  It had never even occurred to  me that Zoe could drive. I 
mean, she didn't look sixteen. Then again, she was immortal. I wondered if she had a New 
York license, and if so, what her birth date said. 
"Well," I said. "Lets get after them." 
We were about to leap off the Chrysler Building when Blackjack whinnied in alarm and 
almost threw me. Something was curling around my leg like a snak e. I reached for my sword, 
but when I looked down, there was no snake. Vines—grape vines—had sprouted from the 
cracks between the stones of the building. Th ey were wrapping around Blackjack's legs, 
lashing down my ankles so we couldn't move.  "Going somewhere?" Mr. D asked. 
He was leaning against the building with his feet levitating in the air, his leopard-skin 
warm-up suit and black hair whipping around in the wind. 
God alert ! Blackjack yelled. It's the wine dude ! 
Mr. D sighed in exaspera tion. "The next person, or horse, who calls me the 'wine dude' 
will end up in a bottle of Merlot!" 
"Mr. D." I tried to keep my voice calm as the grape vines continued to wrap around my 
legs. "What do you want?" 
"Oh, what do I  want? You thought, perhaps, that the immortal, all-powerful director of 
camp would not notice you l eaving without permission?" 
"Well… maybe." 
"I should throw you off this  building, minus the flying horse, and see how heroic you 
sound on the way down." 
I balled my fists. I knew I should keep my mouth shut, but Mr. D was about to kill me 
or haul me back to camp in shame, and I couldn't stand either idea. "Why do you hate me so 
much? What did I ever do to you?" 
Purple flames flickered in  his eyes. "You're a hero, boy. I need no other reason." 
"I have to go on this quest! I've got to help my friends. That's something you wouldn't 
understand!" 
Um, boss , Blackjack said nervously. Seeing as how we're wrapped in vines nine 
hundred feet in the air, you might want to talk nice . 
The grape vines coiled tighter around me. Be low us, the white van was getting farther 
and farther away. Soon it would be out of sight. 
"Did I ever tell you about Ariadne?" Mr. D asked. "Beautiful young princess of Crete? 
She liked helping her friends, too. In fact, she helped a young hero named Theseus, also a son 
of Poseidon. She gave him a ball of magical yarn that let him find his way out of the 
Labyrinth. 
And do you know how Theseus rewarded her?" 
The answer I wanted to give was I don't care ! But I didn't figure that would make Mr. D 
finish his story any faster. 
"They got married," I said. "Ha ppily ever after. The end." 
Mr. D sneered. "Not quite. Theseus said he would marry her. He took her aboard his 
ship and sailed for Athens. Halfway back, on a little island called Naxos, he… What's the  word you mortals use today?… he dumped her. I found her there, you know. Alone. 
Heartbroken. Crying her eyes out. She had given up everything, left everything she knew 
behind, to help a dashing young hero who to ssed her away like a broken sandal." 
"That's wrong," I said. "But that  was thousands of years ago. What's that got to do with 
me?" 
Mr. D regarded me coldly. "I fell in love with Ariadne, boy. I heal ed her broken heart. 
And when she died, I made her my immortal wife on Olympus. She waits for me even now. I 
shall go back to her when I am done with this infernal century of punishment at your 
ridiculous camp." 
I stared at him. "You're… you're married? Bu t I thought you got in trouble for chasing a 
wood nymph—" 
"My point  is you heroes never change. You accu se us gods of being vain. You should 
look at yourselves. You take what you want, use whoever you have to, and then you betray everyone around you. So you'll excuse me if I have no love for heroes. They are a selfish, 
ungrateful lot. Ask Ariadne. Or Medea. For that matter, ask Zoe Nightshade." 
"What do you mean, ask Zoe?" 
He waved his hand dismissively. "Go. Follow your silly friends." 
The vines uncurled around my legs. I blinked in disbelief. "You're… you're  letting me go? Just like that?" 
"The prophecy says at least two of you will die. Perhaps I'll get lucky and you'll be one 
of them. But mark my words, Son of Poseidon, live or die, you will prove no better than the 
other heroes." 
With that, Dionysus snapped his fingers. His image folded up like a paper display. 
There was a pop and he was gone, leaving a faint scent of grapes that was quickly blown 
away by the wind. 
Too close , Blackjack said. 
I nodded, though I almost would have been less worried if Mr. D had hauled me back to 
camp. The fact that he'd let me go meant he rea lly believed we stood a fair  chance of crashing 
and burning on this quest. 
"Come on, Blackjack," I said, trying to sound upbeat. "I'll buy you some donuts in New 
Jersey." 
As it turned out, I didn't buy Blackjack donuts in New Jersey. Zoe drove south like a 
crazy person, and we were into Maryland before she finally pulled over at a rest stop. 
Blackjack darn near tumbled out of the sky, he was so tired.  I'll be okay, boss , he panted. Just… just catching my breath . 
"Stay here," I told him. "I'm going to scout." 
'Stay here' I can handle. I can do that.  
I put on my cap of invisibility and walked ove r to the convenience store. It was difficult 
not to sneak. I had to keep reminding myself  that nobody could see me. It was hard, too, 
because I had to remember to  get out of people's way so they wouldn't slam into me. 
I thought I'd go inside and warm up, maybe get a cup of hot chocolate or something. I 
had a little change in my pocke t. I could leave it on  the counter. I was wondering if the cup 
would turn invisible when I pick ed it up, or if I'd have to deal  with a floating hot chocolate 
problem, when my whole plan was ruined by Zoe, Thalia, Bianca, and Grover all coming out 
of the store. 
"Grover, are you sure?" Thalia was saying. 
"Well… pretty sure. Ninety-nine pe rcent. Okay, eighty-five percent." 
"And you did this with acorns?" Bianca asked, like she couldn't believe it. 
Grover looked offended. "It's a time-honored track ing spell. I mean, I'm pretty sure I did 
it right." 
"D.C. is about sixty miles from here," Bianca said. "Nico and I…" She frowned. "We 
used to live there. That's… that's strange. I'd forgotten." 
"I dislike this," Zoe said. "We should go straight west. The prophecy said west." "Oh, like your tracking skills are better?" Thalia growled. 
Zoe stepped toward her. "You challenge my skills, you scullion? You know nothing of 
being a Hunter!" 
"Oh, scullion  You're calling me a scullion? What the heck  is a scullion?" 
"Whoa, you two," Grover said nervously. "Come on. Not again!" 
"Grover's right," Bianca said. "D.C. is our best bet." Zoe didn't look convinced, but  she nodded reluctantly. "V ery well. Let us keep 
moving." 
"You're going to get us arrested, driving," Th alia grumbled. "I l ook closer to sixteen 
than you do." 
"Perhaps," Zoe snapped. "But I have been driving since automobile s were invented. Let 
us go."    
As Blackjack and I continued south, following the van, I wondered whether Zoe had 
been kidding. I didn't know exactly when cars were invented, but I figured that was like 
prehistoric times—back when people watched black-and-white TV and hunted dinosaurs. 
How old was Zoe? And what had Mr. D been talk ing about? What bad experience had 
she had with heroes? 
As we got closer to Washi ngton, Blackjack started slowing down and dropping altitude. 
He was breathing heavily. 
"You okay?" I asked him. 
Fine, boss. I could… I could take on an army. 
"You don't sound so good." And suddenly I felt  guilty, because I'd been running the 
pegasus for half a day, nonstop, trying to keep up with highway traffic. Even for a flying 
horse, that had to be rough. 
Don't worry about me, boss! I'm a tough one.  
I figured he was right, but I also figured Blackjack would run hi mself into the ground 
before he complained, and I didn't want that. 
Fortunately, the van started to slow down. It crossed the Potomac River into central 
Washington. I started thinking a bout air patrols and missiles and stuff like that. I didn't know 
exactly how all those defenses worked, and wasn 't sure if pegasi ev en showed up on your 
typical military radar, but I didn't want to  find out by getting shot out of the sky. 
"Set me down there," I told Blackjack. "That's close enough." 
Blackjack was so tired he didn't compla in. He dropped toward the Washington 
Monument and set me on the grass. 
The van was only a few blocks away. Zoe had parked at the curb. 
I looked at Blackjack. "I want you to go back to camp. Get some rest. Graze. I'll be 
fine." 
Blackjack cocked his head skeptically. You sure, boss ? 
"You've done enough already," I said. "I'll be fine. And thanks a ton." 
A ton of hay, maybe , Blackjack mused. That sounds good. All . right, but be careful, 
boss. I got a feeling they didn't come here to meet anything frie ndly and handsome like me . 
I promised to be careful. Then Blackjack took off, circling twice around the monument 
before disappearing into the clouds.  I looked over at the white van. Everybody was getting out. Grover pointed toward one 
of the big buildings lining the Mall. Thalia nodde d, and the four of them trudged off into the 
cold wind. 
I started to follow. But then I froze. 
A block away, the door of a black sedan ope ned. A man with gray hair and a military 
buzz cut got out. He was wearing dark shades and a black overcoat. Now, maybe in 
Washington, you'd expected guys like that to be  everywhere. But it dawned on me that I'd 
seen this same car a couple of times on the highway, going south. It had been following the 
van. 
The guy took out his mobile phone and said something into it. Then he looked around, 
like he was making sure the coast was clear, and started walking down the Mall in the direction of my friends. 
The worst of it was: when he turned toward me, I recognized his face . It was Dr. Thorn, 
the manticore from Westover Hall. 
Invisibility cap on, I followed Thorn from a distance. My heart was pounding. If he had 
survived that fall from the cliff, then Annabeth  must have too. My dreams had been right. She 
was alive and being held prisoner. 
Thorn kept well back from my fr iends, careful not to be seen. 
Finally, Grover stopped in front of a bi g building that said NATIONAL AIR AND 
SPACE MUSEUM. The Smithsonian! I'd been he re a million years ago with my mom, but 
everything had looked so much bigger then. 
Thalia checked the door. It was open, but there weren't many people going in. Too cold, 
and school was out of sessi on. They slipped inside. 
Dr. Thorn hesitated. I wasn't sure why, but he  didn't go into the museum. He turned and 
headed across the Mall. I made a sp lit-second decision and followed him. 
Thorn crossed the street and climbed the step s of the Museum of Natural History. There 
was a big sign on the door. At first I thought it said CLOSED FOR PIRATE EVENT. Then I 
realized PIRATE must be PRIVATE. 
I followed Dr. Thorn inside, through a huge  chamber full of mastodons and dinosaur 
skeletons. There were voices up ahead, coming from behind a set of closed doors. Two guards 
stood outside. They opened the doors for Thorn, and I had to sprint to get inside before they 
closed them again. 
Inside, what I saw was so terrible I almost  gasped out loud, which probably would've 
gotten me killed.  I was in a huge round room with a balcony ri nging the second level. At least a dozen 
mortal guards stood on the ba lcony, plus two monsters—reptil ian women with double-snake 
trunks instead of legs. I'd seen them before. Annabeth had called them Scythian dracaenae. 
But that wasn't the worse of it. Standing between the snake women—I could swear he 
was looking straight down at me—was my old enemy Luke. He looked terrible. His skin was 
pale and his blond hair looked almost gray, as if he'd aged ten years in just a few months. The 
angry light in his eyes was still there, and so was the scar down the si de of his face, where a 
dragon had once scratched him. But the scar was now ugly red, as though it had recently been 
reopened. 
Next to him, sitting down so that the sh adows covered him, was another man. All I 
could see were his knuckles on the gilded  arms of his chair, like a throne. 
"Well?" asked the man in the chair. His voi ce was just like the one I'd heard in my 
dream—not as creepy as Kronos's, but deeper and st ronger, like the earth itself was talking. It 
filled the whole room even though he wasn't yelling. 
Dr. Thorn took off his shades. His two-colo red eyes, brown and bl ue, glittered with 
excitement. He made a stiff bow, then spoke  in his weird French accent: "They are here, 
General." 
"I know that, you fool," boomed the man. "But where?" 
"In the rocket museum." 
"The Air and Space Museum," Luke corrected irritably. 
Dr. Thorn glared at Luke. "As you say, sir" 
I got the feeling Thorn would ju st as soon impale Luke with one of his spikes as call 
him sir. 
"How many?" Luke asked. Thorn pretended not to hear. "How many ?" the General demanded. 
"Four, General," Thorn said. "The satyr, Gr over Underwood. And the gi rl with the spiky 
black hair and the—how do you say— punk  clothes and the horrible shield." 
"Thalia," Luke said. "And two other girls—Hunters. One wears a silver circlet." 
"That one I know," the General growled. 
Everyone in the room shifted uncomfortably.  "Let me take them," Luke said to th e General. "We have more than enough—" 
"Patience," the General said. "They'll have their hands full already. I've sent a little 
playmate to keep them occupied." 
"But—" 
"We cannot risk you, my boy." 
"Yes, boy," Dr. Thorn said with a cruel smile. "You are much too fragile to risk. Let me 
finish them off." 
"No." The General rose from his chair, and I got my first look at him. 
He was tall and muscular, with light brown skin  and slicked-back dark hair. He wore an 
expensive brown silk suit like the guys on Wall Street wear, but you'd never mistake this dude 
for a broker. He had a brutal face, huge shoulders, and hands that could snap a flagpole in 
half. His eyes were like stone. I felt as if I were looking at a living statue. It was amazing he 
could even move. 
"You have already failed  me, Thorn," he said. 
"But, General—" "No excuses!" Thorn flinched. I'd thought Thorn was scary when  I first saw him in his black uniform at 
the military academy. But now, standing before the General, Thorn looked like a silly 
wannabe soldier. The General was the real deal. He didn't need a uniform. He was a born 
commander. 
"I should throw you into the pits of Tartar us for your incompetence," the General said. 
"I send you to capture a child of the three elde r gods, and you bring me a scrawny daughter of 
Athena." 
"But you promised me revenge.'" Thorn protested. "A command of my own!" 
"I am Lord Kronos's senior commander," the General said. "And I will choose 
lieutenants who get me results! It  was only thanks to Luke that we salvaged our plan at all. 
Now get out of my sight, Thorn, until I fi nd some other menial task for you." 
Thorn's face turned purple with rage. I t hought he was going to start frothing at the 
mouth or shooting spines, but he just  bowed awkwardly and left the room. 
"Now, my boy." The General turned to Luke. "The first thing we must do is isolate the 
half-blood Thalia. The monster we seek will then come to her." 
"The Hunters will be difficult to dispose of," Luke said. "Zoe Nightshade—" 
"Do not speak her name!"  Luke swallowed. "S—sorry, General. I just—" 
The General silenced him with a wave of  his hand. "Let me show you, my boy, how we 
will bring the Hunters down." 
He pointed to a guard on the ground level. "Do you have the teeth?" 
The guy stumbled forward with a ceramic pot. "Yes, General!" 
"Plant them," he said. 
In the center of the room was a big circle of dirt, where I guess a dinosaur exhibit was 
supposed to go. I watched nervously as the guard took sharp white teeth out of the pot and 
pushed them into the soil. He smoothed th em over while the General smiled coldly. 
The guard stepped back from the dirt  and wiped his hands. "Ready, General!" 
"Excellent! Water them, and we w ill let them scent their prey." 
The guard picked up a little tin watering can with daisies painted on it, which was kind 
of bizarre, because what he poured out wasn't water. It was dark red liquid, and I got the 
feeling it wasn't Hawaiian Punch. 
The soil began to bubble. 
"Soon," the General said, "I will show you, Luke, soldiers that will make your army 
from that little boat look insignificant." 
Luke clenched his fists. "I've spent a year training my forces! When the Princess 
Andromeda arrives at the mountain, they'll be the best—" 
"Ha.'" the General said. "I don't deny your troops will make a fine honor guard for Lord 
Kronos. And you, of course, will  have a role to play—" 
I thought Luke turned paler when the General said that. 
"—but under my leadership, the forces of Lo rd Kronos will increase a hundredfold. We 
will be unstoppable. Behold, my ultimate killing machines." 
The soil erupted. I stepped back nervously. 
In each spot where a tooth had been plante d, a creature was struggling out of the dirt. 
The first of them said: 
"Mew?" 
It was a kitten. A little orange  tabby with stripes like a tiger. Then another appeared, 
until there were a dozen, rolling around and playing in the dirt.  Everyone stared at them in disbelief. The General roared, " What is this? Cute cuddly 
kittens? Where did you find those teeth ?" 
The guard who'd brought the teet h cowered in fear. "From the exhibit, sir! Ju st like you 
said. The saber-toothed tiger—" 
"No, you idiot! I said the tyrannosaurus! Gather up those… those infernal fuzzy little 
beasts and take them outside. And never let me see your face again." 
The terrified guard dropped his watering can. He gathered up the kittens and scampered 
out of the room. 
"You.'" The General pointed to another guard. "Get me the right teeth. NOW !" 
The new guard ran off to carry out his orders. 
"Imbeciles,' muttered the General. 
"This is why I don't use mortals," Luke said. "They are unreliable." 
"They are weak-minded, easily bought, and viol ent," the General said. "I love them." 
A minute later, the guard hustled into the room  with his hands full of  large pointy teeth. 
"Excellent," the General said. He climbed  onto the balcony railing and jumped down, 
twenty feet. 
Where he landed, the marble floor cracked under his leather shoes. He stood, wincing, 
and rubbed his shoulders. "C urse my stiff neck." 
"Another hot pad, sir?" a guard asked. "More Tylenol?" "No! It will pass." The General brushed off his silk suit, then snatched up the teeth. "I 
shall do this myself." 
He held up one of the teeth and smiled. "D inosaur teeth—ha! Those foolish mortals 
don't even know when they have dragon teeth in their possession. And not just any dragon 
teeth. These come from the ancient Sybaris herself! They shall do nicely." 
He planted them in the dirt, twelve in all. Then he scooped up the watering can. He 
sprinkled the soil with red liquid, tossed the ca n away, and held his arms out wide. Rise! 
The dirt trembled. A single, skeletal hand shot out of th e ground, grasping at the air. 
The General looked up at the balcony. "Quickly, do you have the scent?" 
"Yesssss, lord," one of the snake ladies said. She took out a sash of silvery fabric, like 
the kind the Hunters wore.  "Excellent," the General said. "Once my wa rriors catch its scent, they will pursue its 
owner relentlessly. Nothing can stop them, no weapons known to half-blood or Hunter. They 
will tear the Hunters and their allies to shreds. Toss it here!" 
As he said that, skeletons erupted from the ground. There were twelve of them, one for 
each tooth the General had planted. They were nothing like Halloween skeletons, or the kind 
you might see in cheesy movies. These were grow ing flesh as I watched, turning into men, 
but men with dull gray skin, yellow eyes, an d modern clothes—gray muscle shirts, camo 
pants, and combat boots. If you didn't look too closely, you could almost believe they were 
human, but their flesh was transparent a nd their bones shimmered underneath, like X-ray 
images. 
One of them looked straight at me, regard ing me coldly, and I knew that no cap of 
invisibility would fool it. 
The snake lady released the scarf and it fluttered down toward the General's hand. As 
soon as he gave it to the warriors, they would hunt Zoe and the others until they were extinct. 
I didn't have time to think. I ran and jump ed with all my might, plowing into the 
warriors and snatching the scarf out of the air. 
"What's this?" bellowed the General. 
I landed at the feet of a sk eleton warrior, who hissed. 
"An intruder," the General growled. "One cloaked in darkness. Seal the doors!" 
"It's Percy Jackson!" Luke yelled. "It has to be." 
I sprinted for the exit, but heard a ripping sound and realized the skeleton warrior had 
taken a chunk out of my sleeve. When I glance d back, he was holding the fabric up to his 
nose, sniffing the scent, handing it around to his friends. I wanted to scream, but I couldn't. I 
squeezed through the door just as th e guards slammed it shut behind me. 
And then I ran. 
  TEN  
I BREAK A FEW ROCKET SHIPS  
I tore across the Mall, not daring to look behind me. I burst into the Air and Space 
Museum and took off my invi sibility cap once I was th rough the admissions area. 
The main part of the museum was one huge room with rockets a nd airplanes hanging 
from the ceiling. Three levels  of balconies curled around, so you could look at the exhibits 
from all different heights. The place wasn't cr owded, just a few familie s and a couple of tour 
groups of kids, probably doing one of those holiday school trips. I wanted to yell at them all 
to leave, but I figured that w ould only get me arrested. I had to find Thalia and Grover and the 
Hunters. Any minute, the skeleton dudes were going to invade the museum, and I didn't think 
they would settle for an audio tour. 
I ran into Thalia—literally. I was barreli ng up the ramp to the top-floor balcony and 
slammed into her, knocking her into an Apollo space capsule. 
Grover yelped in surprise. Before I could regain my balance, Zoe a nd Bianca had arrows notched, aimed at my 
chest. Their bows had just appeared out of nowhere. 
When Zoe realized who I was, she didn't s eem anxious to lower her bow. "You! How 
dare you show thy face here?" 
"Percy!" Grover said. "Thank goodness." 
Zoe glared at him, and he blushed. "I mea n, um, gosh. You're not supposed to be here!" 
"Luke," I said, trying to catch my breath. "He's here." The anger in Thalia's eyes immediately melte d. She put her hand on her silver bracelet. 
"Where?" 
I told them about the Natural History Museum, Dr. Thorn, Luke, and the General. "The General is here?" Zoe looked stunned. "That is impossible! You lie." 
"Why would I lie? Look, there' s no time. Skeleton warriors—" 
"What ?" Thalia demanded. "How many?" 
"Twelve," I said. "And that's not all. That  guy, the General, he said he was sending 
something, a 'playmate,' to distract you over here. A monster." 
Thalia and Grover exchanged looks.  "We were following Artemis's trail," Grover sai d. "I was pretty sure it led here. Some 
powerful monster scent… She must've stopped here  looking for the mystery monster. But we 
haven't found anything yet." 
"Zoe," Bianca said nervously, "if it is the General—" 
"It cannot  be!" Zoe snapped. "Percy must have seen an Iris-message or some other 
illusion." 
"Illusions don't crack marble floors," I told her. 
Zoe took a deep breath, trying to calm hers elf. I didn't know why she was taking it so 
personally, or how she knew this General guy, but I figured now wasn't the time to ask. "If 
Percy is telling the truth about the skeleton warriors," she sa id, "we have no time to argue. 
They are the worst, the most horrible… We must leave now." 
"Good idea," I said. 
"I was not including thee, boy," Zoe said. "You are not part of this quest." 
"Hey, I'm trying to save your lives!" 
"You shouldn't have come, Percy," Thalia sa id grimly. "But you're here now. Come on. 
Let's get back to the van." 
"That is not thy deci sion!" Zoe snapped. 
Thalia scowled at her. "You're not th e boss here, Zoe. I don't care how old you 
are!You're still a c onceited little brat!" 
"You never had any wisdom when it came to  boys," Zoe growled. "You never could 
leave them behind!" 
Thalia looked like she was a bout to hit Zoe. Then everyon e froze, I heard a growl so 
loud I thought one of the ro cket engines was starting up. 
Below us, a few adults screamed. A little ki d's voice screeched with  delight: "Kitty!" 
Something enormous bounded up the ramp. It was the size of a pick-up truck, with 
silver claws and golden glittering fur. I'd seen this monster once before. Two years ago, I'd 
glimpsed it briefly from a train. Now, up cl ose and personal, it looked even bigger. 
"The Nemean Lion," Thalia said. "Don't move." 
The lion roared so loud it parted my hair. Its fangs gleamed li ke stainless steel. 
"Separate on my mark," Zoe sai d. "Try to keep it distracted." 
"Until when?" Grover asked.  "Until I think of a way to kill it. Go!" 
I uncapped Riptide and rolled to the left. A rrows whistled past me, and Grover played a 
sharp tweet-tweet  cadence on his reed pipes. I turned  and saw Zoe and Bianca climbing the 
Apollo capsule. They were firing arrows, one af ter another, all shatte ring harmlessly against 
the lions metallic fur. The lion swiped the capsule and tipped it on its side, spilling the 
Hunters off the back. Grover played a frantic, ho rrible tune, and the lion turned toward him, 
but Thalia stepped into its path, holdi ng up Aegis, and the lion recoiled. "ROOOAAAR!" 
"Hi-yah!" Thalia said. "Back!" 
The lion growled and clawed the air, but it retr eated as if the shield were a blazing fire. 
For a second, I thought Thalia had it under co ntrol. Then I saw the lion crouching, its 
leg muscles tensing. I'd seen enough cat figh ts in the alleys around my apartment in New 
York. I knew the lion was going to pounce. 
"Hey!" I yelled. I don't know what I was thinki ng, but I charged the beast. I just wanted 
to get it away from my friends. I slashed with Riptide, a good stri ke to the flank that should've 
cut the monster into Meow Mix, but the blade just  clanged against its fur in a burst of sparks. 
The lion raked me with its claws, ripping o ff a chunk of my coat. I backed against the 
railing. It sprang at me, one t housand pounds of monster, and I had no choice but to turn and 
jump. 
I landed on the wing of an old-fashioned s ilver airplane, which pitched and almost 
spilled me to the floor, three stories below. 
An arrow whizzed past my head. The lion jumped onto the aircraft, and the cords 
holding the plane began to groan. 
The lion swiped at me, and I dropped onto the next exhibit, a weird-looking spacecraft 
with blades like a helicopter. I looked up and saw the lion roar —inside its maw, a pink tongue 
and throat. 
Its mouth, I thought. Its fur was completely invu lnerable, but if I coul d strike it in the 
mouth… The only problem was, the monster moved too quickly. Between its claws and 
fangs, I couldn't get close without getting sliced to pieces. 
"Zoe!" I shouted. "Target the mouth!" 
The monster lunged. An arrow zipped past it, missing completely, and I dropped from 
the spaceship onto the top of a floor exhibit, a huge model of the earth. I slid down Russia and 
dropped off the equator. 
The Nemean Lion growled and steadied itsel f on the spacecraft, but its weight was too 
much. One of the cords snapped. As the disp lay swung down like a pendulum, the lion leaped 
off onto the model earth's North Pole. 
"Grover!" I yelled. "C lear the area!"  Groups of kids were running around screaming. Grover tried to corral them away from 
the monster just as the other cord on the sp aceship snapped and the exhibit crashed to the 
floor. Thalia dropped off the second-floor railing and landed across from me, on the other side 
of the globe. The lion regarded us both, tryi ng to decide which of us to kill first. 
Zoe and Bianca were above us, bows ready, bu t they kept having to move around to get 
a good angle. 
"No clear shot!" Zoe yelled. "Get  it to open its mouth more!" 
The lion snarled from the top of the globe. 
I looked around. Options . I needed… 
The gift shop. I had a vague memory from my  trip here as a little kid. Something I'd 
made my mom buy me, and I'd regretted it.  If they still sold that stuff… 
"Thalia," I said, "keep it occupied." 
She nodded grimly. 
"Hi-yah!" She pointed her spear and a spider y arc of blue electricity shot out, zapping 
the lion in the tail. 
"ROOOOOOOAR !" The lion turned and pounced. Thalia rolled out of its way, holding 
up Aegis to keep the monster at bay, and I ran for the gift shop. 
"This is no time for souvenirs, boy!" Zoe yelled. I dashed into the shop, knocking over rows of T-shirts, jumping over tables full of glow-
in-the-dark planets and space ooze. The sales lady didn't protest. She was too busy cowering 
behind her cash register. 
There! On the far wall—glittery silver packets. Whole racks of them. I scooped up 
every kind I could find and ran out of the shop with an armful. 
Zoe and Bianca were still showering arro ws on the monster, but it was no good. The 
lion seemed to know bette r than to open its mouth too muc h. It snapped at Thalia, slashing 
with its claws. It even kept its eyes narrowed to tiny slits. 
Thalia jabbed at the monster and backed up. The lion pressed her. 
"Percy," she called, "whate ver you're going to do—" 
The lion roared and swatted her like a cat toy, sending her flying into the side of a Titan 
rocket. Her head hit the meta l and she slid to the floor. 
"Hey!" I yelled at the lion. I was too far away  to strike, so I took a risk: I hurled Riptide 
like a throwing knife. It bounced off the lion's si de, but that was enough to get the monster's 
attention. It turned toward me and snarled.  There was only one way to get close enough. I charged, and as the lion leaped to 
intercept me, I chunked a space food pouch into  its maw—a chunk of cellophane-wrapped, 
freeze-dried strawberry parfait. 
The lion's eyes got wide and it ga gged like a cat with a hairball. 
I couldn't blame it. I remembered feeling the same way when I'd trie d to eat space food 
as a kid. The stuff was just plain nasty. 
"Zoe, get ready!" I yelled. 
Behind me, I could hear peopl e screaming. Grover was playin g another horrible song on 
his pipes. 
I scrambled away from the lion. It manage d to choke down the space food packet and 
looked at me with pure hate. 
"Snack time!" I yelled. 
It made the mistake of roaring at me, and I got an ice-cream sandwich in its throat. 
Fortunately, I had always been a pretty good pitcher, even though baseball wasn't my game. 
Before the lion could stop gagging, I shot in tw o more flavors of ice cream and a freeze-dried 
spaghetti dinner. 
The lion's eyes bugged. It opened its mouth wide and reared up on its back paws, trying 
to get away from me. 
"Now!" I yelled. 
Immediately, arrows pierced the lion's ma w—two, four, six. The lion thrashed wildly, 
turned, and fell backward. And then it was still. 
Alarms wailed throughout the museum. Peopl e were flocking to the exits. Security 
guards were running around in a pa nic with no idea what was going on. 
Grover knelt at Thalia's side and helped he r up. She seemed okay, just a little dazed. 
Zoe and Bianca dropped from the balcony and landed next to me. 
Zoe eyed me cautiously. "That wa s… an interesting strategy." 
"Hey, it worked." She didn't argue. 
The lion seemed to be melting, the way d ead monsters do sometimes, until there was 
nothing left but its glittering fur coat, and even that seemed to be shrinking to the size of a 
normal lion's pelt. 
"Take it," Zoe told me.  I stared at her. "What, the lion's fur? Isn' t that, like, an animal  rights violation or 
something?" 
"It is a spoil of war," she told me. "It is rightly thine." 
"You killed it," I said. She shook her head, almost smiling. "I think thy ice-cream sandwich did that. Fair is 
fair, Percy Jackson. Take the fur." 
I lifted it up; it was surprisingly light. The fu r was smooth and soft. It didn't feel at all 
like something that could stop a blade. As I watched, the pelt shifted and changed into a 
coat—a full-length golden-brown duster. 
"Not exactly my style," I murmured. 
"We have to get out of here," Grover said. "T he security guards won't stay confused for 
long." 
I noticed for the first time how strange it was that the guards hadn't rushed forward to 
arrest us. They were scrambling in all directions except ours, like they were madly searching 
for something. A few were running into the walls or each other. 
"You did that?" I asked Grover. He nodded, looking a little embarrassed. "A mi nor confusion song. I played some Barry 
Manilow. It works every time. Bu t it'll only last a few seconds." 
"The security guards are not our biggest worry," Zoe said. "Look." Through the glass walls of the museum, I c ould see a group of me n walking across the 
lawn. Gray men in gray camouflage outfits. They  were too far away for us to see their eyes, 
but I could feel their gaze aimed straight at me. 
"Go," I said. "They'll be hunting me. I'll distract them." 
"No," Zoe said. "We go together." 
I stared at her. "But, you said—" 
"You are part of this quest now," Zoe said grudgingly. "I do not lik e it, but there is no 
changing fate. You are the fifth quest me mber. And we are not le aving anyone behind." 
  ELEVEN  
GROVER GETS A LAMBORGHINI  
We were crossing the Potomac when we spotted the helicopter. It was a sleek, black 
military model just like the one we'd seen at Westover Hall. And it was coming straight 
toward us. 
"They know the van," I said. "We have to ditch it." 
Zoe swerved into the fast la ne. The helicopter was gaining. 
"Maybe the military will shoot it down," Grover said hopefully. 
"The military probably thinks it's one of theirs," I said. "How can the General use 
mortals, anyway?" 
"Mercenaries," Zoe said bitter ly. "It is distasteful, but ma ny mortals will fight for any 
cause as long as they are paid." 
"But don't these mortals see who they're working for?" I asked. "Don't they notice all 
the monsters around them?" 
Zoe shook her head. "I do not know how much they see through the Mist. I doubt it 
would matter to them if they knew the truth. Sometimes mortals can be more horrible than 
monsters." 
The helicopter kept coming, making a lot better time than we were through D.C. traffic. 
Thalia closed her eyes and prayed har d. "Hey, Dad. A lightning bolt would be nice 
about now. Please?" 
But the sky stayed gray and snowy. No sign of a helpful thunderstorm. 
"There!" Bianca said. "That parking lot!" 
"We'll be trapped," Zoe said. 
"Trust me," Bianca said. 
Zoe shot across two lanes of traffic and into  a mall parking lot on the south bank of the 
river. We left the van and followed Bianca down some steps. 
"Subway entrance," Bianca said. "Let's go south. Alexandria." 
"Anything," Thalia agreed.  We bought tickets and got through the turnst iles, looking behind us for any signs of 
pursuit. A few minutes later we were safely aboard a southbound train, riding away from D.C. 
As our train came above ground, we could see th e helicopter circling th e parking lot, but it 
didn't come after us. 
Grover let out a sigh. "Nice job, Bi anca, thinking of the subway." 
Bianca looked pleased. "Yeah, well. I saw th at station when Nico and I came through 
last summer. I remember being really surprised to see it, because it wasn't here when we used 
to live in D.C." 
Grover frowned. "New? But that station looked really old." 
"I guess," Bianca said. "But trust me, when we  lived here as little  kids, there was no 
subway." 
Thalia sat forward. "Wait a minute. No subway at all?" 
Bianca nodded. Now, I knew nothing about D.C., but I didn't see how their whole subway system could 
be less than twelve years old. I guess everyone el se was thinking the same thing, because they 
looked pretty confused. 
"Bianca," Zoe said. "How long ago…" Her voice faltered. The sound of the helicopter 
was getting louder again. 
"We need to change trains ," I said. "Next station." 
Over the next half hour, all we thought about was getting away safely. We changed 
trains twice. I had no idea where we were goi ng, but after a while we lost the helicopter. 
Unfortunately, when we finally got off the train we found ourselves at the end of the 
line, in an industrial area with nothing but wa rehouses and railway tracks. And snow. Lots of 
snow. It seemed much colder here. I was glad for my new lion's fur coat. 
We wandered through the railway yard, thinki ng there might be another passenger train 
somewhere, but there were just rows and rows of freight cars, most of which were covered in 
snow, like they hadn't moved in years. 
A homeless guy was standing at a trash-can fi re. We must've looked pretty pathetic, 
because he gave us a toothless grin and said, "Y'all need to get warmed up? Come on over!' 
We huddled around his fire, Thalia's teeth were  chattering. She said, "Well this is g-g-g-
great." 
"My hooves are frozen," Grover complained. "Feet," I corrected, for the sake of the homeless guy.  "Maybe we should contact cam p," Bianca said. "Chiron—" 
"No," Zoe said. "They cannot help us anymore.  We must finish this quest ourselves." 
I gazed miserably around the rail yard. Somewh ere, far to the west, Annabeth was in 
danger. Artemis was in chains. A doomsday monster was on the loose. And we were stuck on 
the outskirts of D.C., sharing a homeless persons fire. 
"You know," the homeless man said, "you're never completely without friends." His 
face was grimy and his beard tangled, but his expression seemed kindly. "You kids need a 
train going west?" 
"Yes, sir," I said. "You know of any?" 
He pointed one greasy hand. 
Suddenly I noticed a freight train, gleaming and free of s now. It was one of those 
automobile-carrier trains, with st eel mesh curtains and a triple-deck of cars inside. The side of 
the freight train said SUN WEST LINE. 
"That's… convenient," Thalia said. "Thanks, uh…" She turned to the homeless guy, but he was gone . The trash can in front of us was cold 
and empty, as if he'd taken the flames with him. 
An hour later we were rumbling west. Th ere was no problem about who would drive 
now, because we all got our own luxury car. Zo e and Bianca were crashed out in a Lexus on 
the top deck. Grover was playing race car driv er behind the wheel of a Lamborghini. And 
Thalia had hot-wired th e radio in a black Mercedes SLK so she could pick up the alt-rock 
stations from D.C. 
"Join you?" I asked her. She shrugged, so I climbed into the shotgun seat. The radio was playing the White Stripes. I kn ew the song because it was one of the only 
CDs I owned that my mom liked. She said it reminded her of Led Zeppelin. Thinking about 
my mom made me sad, because it didn't seem lik ely I'd be home for Christmas. I might not 
live that long. 
"Nice coat," Thalia told me. 
I pulled the brown duster around me, thankful  for the warmth. "Yeah, but the Nemean 
Lion wasn't the monster we're looking for." 
"Not even close. We've got a long way to go."  "Whatever this mystery monster is, the Ge neral said it woul d come for you. They 
wanted to isolate you from the group, so the monster will appear and battle you one-on-one." 
"He said that?" 
"Well, something like that. Yeah." 
"That's great. I love being used as bait." 
"No idea what the monster might be?" 
She shook her head morosely. "But you know where we're going, don't you? San 
Francisco. That's where Artemis was heading." 
I remembered something Annabeth had said at the dance: how her dad was moving to 
San Francisco, and there was no way she c ould go. Half-bloods couldn't live there. 
"Why?" I asked. "What's so bad about San Francisco?" "The Mist is really thick there because the Mountain of Despair is so near. Titan 
magic—what's left of it—still lingers. Monsters are attracted to that area like you wouldn't 
believe." 
"What's the Mountain of Despair?" 
Thalia raised an eyebrow. "You really don' t know? Ask stupid Zoe. She's the expert." 
She glared out the windshield. I wanted to as k her what she was talking about, but I also 
didn't want to sound like an idiot. I hated feeling like Thalia knew more than I did, so I kept 
my mouth shut. 
The afternoon sun shone through th e steel-mesh side of the fr eight car, casting a shadow 
across Thalia's face. I thought about how different she was from Zoe—Zoe all formal and 
aloof like a princess, Thalia with her ratty clothes and her rebel at titude. But there was 
something similar about them, too. The same  kind of toughness. Right now, sitting in the 
shadows with a gloomy expression, Thalia looked a lot like one of the Hunters. 
Then suddenly, it hit me: "That's why you don't get along with Zoe." 
Thalia frowned. "What?" 
"The Hunters tried to recruit you," I guessed. 
Her eyes got dangerously bright. I though t she was going to zap me out of the 
Mercedes, but she just sighed. I almost joined  them," she admitted. "Luke, Annabeth, and I 
ran into them once, and Zoe tried to convince me. She almost did, but…" 
"But?" 
Thalia's fingers gripped the wheel. "I would've had to leave Luke."  "Oh." 
"Zoe and I got into a fight. She told me I was being stup id. She said I'd regret my 
choice. She said Luke would let me down someday." 
I watched the sun through the metal curtain. We seemed to be trav eling faster each 
second—shadows flickering like an old movie projector. 
"That's harsh," I said. "Hard to admit Zoe was right." 
"She wasn't  right! Luke never  let me down. Never." 
"We'll have to fight him," I said. "There's no way around it." 
Thalia didn't answer. 
"You haven't seen him lately," I warned. "I know it's hard to believe, but—" "I'll do what I have to." "Even if that means killing him?" 
"Do me a favor," she sai d. "Get out of my car." 
I felt so bad for her I didn't argue. 
As I was about to leave, she said, "Percy." When I looked back, her eyes were red, but I couldn't tell if it was from anger or 
sadness. "Annabeth wanted to join the Hunt ers, too. Maybe you should think about why." 
Before I could respond, she raised the power windows and shut me out.   I sat in the driver's seat of Grover's Lam borghini. Grover was asleep in the back. He'd 
finally given up trying to impress Zoe and Bianca  with his pipe music af ter he played "Poison 
Ivy" and caused that very stuff to spr out from their Lexus's air conditioner. 
As I watched the sun go down, I thought of Anna beth. I was afraid to go to sleep. I was 
worried what I might dream. 
"Oh, don't be afraid of dreams," a voice said right next to me. I looked over. Somehow, I wasn't surprised to find the homeless guy from the rail yard 
sitting in the shotgun seat. His jeans were so wo rn out they were almost white. His coat was 
ripped, with stuffing coming out. He looked kind of like a teddy bear that had been run over 
by a truck.  "If it weren't for dreams," he said, "I woul dn't know half the thi ngs I know about the 
future. They're better than Olympus tabloids." He  cleared his throat, th en held up his hands 
dramatically: 
"Dreams like a podcast,  
Downloading truth in my ears.  
They tell me cool stuff"  
  Apollo?" I guessed, because I figured nobody else could make a haiku that bad. 
He put his finger to his lips. "I 'm incognito. Call me Fred." 
"A god named Fred?" 
"Eh, well… Zeus insists on certain rules. Hands off, when there's a human quest. Even 
when something really major is wrong. But nobody messes with my baby sister. Nobody ." 
"Can you help us, then?" 
"Shhh. I already have. Haven't you been looking outside?" "The train. How fast are we moving?" Apollo chuckled. "Fast enough. Unfortunately, we're running out of time. It's almost 
sunset. But I imagine we'll get you acro ss a good chunk of America, at least." 
"But where is Artemis?" 
His face darkened. "I know a lot, and I see a lot. But even I don't know that. She's… 
clouded from me. I don't like it." 
"And Annabeth?" 
He frowned. "Oh, you mean that girl you lost? Hmm. I don't know." 
I tried not to feel mad. I knew the gods had a hard time taking mortals seriously, even 
half-bloods. We lived such shor t lives, compared to the gods. 
"What about the monster Artemis was seeking?" I asked. "Do you know what it is?" "No," Apollo said. "But ther e is one who might. If you haven't yet found the monster 
when you reach San Francisco, seek out Nereus, the Old Man of the Sea. He has a long 
memory and a sharp eye. He has the gift of  knowledge sometimes kept obscure from my 
Oracle."  "But it's your Oracle," I protested. "Can't you te ll us what the prophecy means?" 
Apollo sighed. "You might as well ask an arti st to explain his ar t, or ask a poet to 
explain his poem. It defeats the purpose. The meaning is only clear through the search." 
"In other words, you don't know." 
Apollo checked his watch. "Ah, look at the ti me! I have to run. I doubt I can risk 
helping you again, Percy, but remember what I said! Get some sleep! And when you return, I 
expect a good haiku about your journey!" 
I wanted to protest that I wasn't tired a nd I'd never made up a haiku in my life, but 
Apollo snapped his fingers,  and the next thing I knew I was closing my eyes. 
In my dream, I was somebody else. I was wearing an old-fashioned Greek tunic, which 
was a little too breezy downstairs, and laced leather sandals. The Nemean Lion's skin was 
wrapped around my back like a cape, and I was running somewhere, being pulled along by a 
girl who was tightly gripping my hand. 
"Hurry!" she said. It was too da rk to see her face clearly, but I could hear the fear in her 
voice. "He will find us!" 
It was nighttime. A million stars blazed a bove. We were running through tall grass, and 
the scent of a thousand different flowers made the air intoxicating. It was a beautiful garden, 
and yet the girl was leading me through it, as if we were about to die. 
"I'm not afraid," I tried to tell her. 
"You should be!" she said, pulling me along. She had long dark hair braided down her 
back. Her silk robes glowed faintly in the starlight. 
We raced up the side of the hill. She pulled me behind a thorn bush and we collapsed, 
both breathing heavily. I didn't know why the girl  was scared. The garden seemed so peaceful. 
And I felt strong. Stronger th an I'd ever felt before. 
"There is no need to run," I told her. My voice sounded deep er, much more confident. "I 
have bested a thousand monsters with my bare hands." 
"Not this one," the girl said. "Ladon is too strong. You must go around, up the mountain 
to my father. It is the only way." 
The hurt in her voice surprised me. She was really concerned, almost like she cared 
about me. 
"I don't trust your father," I said. 
"You should not," the girl agreed. "You will ha ve to trick him. But you cannot take the 
prize directly. You will die.'"  I chuckled. "Then why don't you help me, pretty one?" 
"I… I am afraid. Ladon will stop me. My sister s, if they found out… they would disown 
me." 
"Then there's nothing for it." I st ood up, rubbing my hands together. 
"Wait.'" the girl said. She seemed to be agonizing over a decision. Then, her fingers trembling, she reached up 
and plucked a long white broo ch from her hair. "If you must fight, take this. My mother, 
Pleione, gave it to me. She was a daughter of th e ocean, and the ocean's power is within it. My 
immortal power." 
The girl breathed on the pin and it glowed fa intly. It gleamed in the starlight like 
polished abalone. 
"Take it," she told me. "A nd make of it a weapon." 
I laughed. "A hairpin? How will th is slay Ladon, pretty one?" 
"It may not," she admitted. "But it is all I can offer, if you insist on being stubborn." 
The girl's voice softened my heart. I reached down and took the hairpin, and as I did, it 
grew longer and heavier in my hand, until I held a familiar bronze sword. 
"Well balanced," I said. "Though I usually pref er to use my bare hands. What shall I 
name this blade?" 
"Anaklusmos," the girl said sadly. "The curre nt that takes one by surprise. And before 
you know it, you have been swept out to sea." 
Before I could thank her, there was a tr ampling sound in the gr ass, a hiss like air 
escaping a tire, and the girl sa id, "Too late! He is here!" 
I sat bolt upright in the Lamborghini's dr ivers seat. Grover was shaking my arm. 
"Percy," he said. "It's morni ng. The train's stopped. Come on!" 
I tried to shake off my drowsiness. Thalia , Zoe, and Bianca had already rolled up the 
metal curtains. Outside were snowy mountains dotted with pine tree s, the sun rising red 
between two peaks. 
I fished my pen out of my  pocket and stared at it. Anaklusmos, the Ancient Greek name 
for Riptide. A different form, but I was sure it was the same blade I'd seen in my dream. 
And I was sure of something else, too. Th e girl I had seen was Zoe Nightshade.  TWELVE  
I GO SNOWBOARDINC WITH A PIG  
We'd arrived on the outskirts of a little ski town nestled in the mountains. The sign said 
WELCOME TO CLOUDCROFT, NEW MEXICO. The air was cold and thin. The roofs of 
the cabins were heaped with snow, and dirty m ounds of it were piled up on the sides of the 
streets. Tall pine trees loomed over the valley, casting pitch-black shadows, though the 
morning was sunny. 
Even with my lion-skin coat, I was freezing by the time we got to Main Street, which 
was about half a mile from the train trac ks. As we walked, I told Grover about my 
conversation with Apollo the night before—how he'd told me to seek out Nereus in San 
Francisco. 
Grover looked uneasy. "That's good, I guess. But we've got to get there first." 
I tried not to get too depre ssed about our chances. I didn't want to send Grover into a 
panic, but I knew we had another huge deadline looming, asid e from saving Artemis in time 
for her council of the gods. The General had said Annabeth would only be kept alive until the 
winter solstice. That was Friday, only four days away. And he'd said something about a 
sacrifice. I didn't like th e sound of that at all. 
We stopped in the middle of town. You could pr etty much see everything from there: a 
school, a bunch of tourist st ores and cafes, some ski cab ins, and a grocery store. 
"Great," Thalia said, looking around. "No bus station. No taxis. No car rental. No way 
out." 
"There's a coffee shop!" said Grover. 
"Yes," Zoe said. "Coffee is good." "And pastries," Grover said dreamily. "And wax paper." 
Thalia sighed. "Fine. How about  you two go get us some foo d. Percy, Bianca, and I will 
check in the grocery store. Maybe they can give us directions." 
We agreed to meet back in front of the gro cery store in fifteen mi nutes. Bianca looked a 
little uncomfortable comi ng with us, but she did. 
Inside the store, we found out a few valuable things about Cloudcroft: there wasn't 
enough snow for skiing, the grocery store sold r ubber rats for a dollar each, and there was no 
easy way in or out of town  unless you had your own car.  "You could call for a taxi from Alamogordo," the clerk said doubtfully. "That's down at 
the bottom of the mountains, but it would take  at least an hour to get here. Cost several 
hundred dollars." 
The clerk looked so lonely, I bought a rubber rat. Then we headed back outside and 
stood on the porch. 
"Wonderful," Thalia grumped. "I'm going to walk down the street, see if anybody in the 
other shops has a suggestion." 
"But the clerk said—" 
"I know," she told me. "I'm checking anyway." 
I let her go. I knew how it felt to be restle ss. All half-bloods had attention deficit 
problems because of our inborn battlefield re flexes. We couldn't stand just waiting around. 
Also, I had a feeling Thalia was still upset over our conversation last night about Luke. 
Bianca and I stood together awkwardly. I m ean… I was never very comfortable talking 
one-on-one with girls anyway, and I'd never been alone with Bianca before. I wasn't sure what 
to say, especially now that sh e was a Hunter and everything. 
"Nice rat," she said at last. I set it on the porch railing. Maybe it woul d attract more business for the store. 
"So… how do you like being a Hunter so far?" I asked. 
She pursed her lips. "You're not sti ll mad at me for joining, are you?" 
"Nah. Long as, you know… you're happy." 
"I'm not sure 'happy' is the right word, with Lady Artemis gone. But being a Hunter is 
definitely cool. I feel calmer somehow. Ever ything seems to have slowed down around me. I 
guess that's the immortality." 
I stared at her, trying to see the difference.  She did seem more confident than before, 
more at peace. She didn't hide her face under a green cap anymore. She kept her hair tied 
back, and she looked me right in the eyes when she spoke. With a shiver, I realized that five 
hundred or a thousand years from now, Bianca di  Angelo would look exactly the same as she 
did today. She might be having a conversation like this with some other half-blood long after 
I was dead, but Bianca would still look twelve years old. 
"Nico didn't understand my decision," Bian ca murmured. She looked at me like she 
wanted assurance it was okay. 
"He'll be all right," I said. "Camp Half-Blood takes in a lo t of young kids. They did that 
for Annabeth."  Bianca nodded. "I hope we find he r. Annabeth, I mean. She's lu cky to have a friend like 
you." 
"Lot of good it did her." 
"Don't blame yourself Percy. You risked your life to save my brother and me. I mean, 
that was seriously brave. If I hadn't met you, I wouldn't have felt okay about leaving Nico at 
the camp. I figured if there were people like yo u there, Nico would be fine. You're a good 
guy." 
The compliment took me by surprise. "Even though I knocked you down in capture the 
flag?" 
She laughed. "Okay. Except for that, you're a good guy." A couple hundred yards away, Grover and Zoe came out of the coffee shop loaded 
down with pastry bags and drinks. I kind of didn't want them to come back yet. It was weird, 
but I realized I liked talking to Bianca. She wasn't so bad. A lot easier to hang out with than 
Zoe Nightshade, anyway. 
"So what's the story with you and Nico?" I asked her. "Where did you go to school 
before Westover?" 
She frowned. "I think it was a boarding sc hool in D.C. It seems like so long ago." 
"You never lived with your parent s? I mean, your mortal parent?" 
"We were told our parents were dead. Ther e was a bank trust for us. A lot of money, I 
think. A lawyer would come by once in a while to  check on us. Then Nico and I had to leave 
that school." 
"Why?" 
She knit her eyebrows. "We had to go some where. I remember it was important. We 
traveled a long way. And we stayed in this hotel for a few weeks. And then… I don't know. 
One day a different lawyer came to get us out. He sa id it was time for us to leave. He drove us 
back east, through D.C. Then up into Maine. And we started going to Westover." 
It was a strange story. Then again, Bianca a nd Nico were half-bloods. Nothing would be 
normal for them. 
"So you've been raising Nico pretty much a ll your life?" I asked. "Just the two of you?" 
She nodded. "That's why I wanted to join the Hunters so bad. I mean, I know it's selfish, 
but I wanted my own life and friends. I love Nico—don't get me wrong—I just needed to find 
out what it would be like not to be a big sister twenty-four hours a day." 
I thought about last summer, the way I'd fe lt when I found out I had a Cyclops for a 
baby brother. I could relate to what Bianca was saying.  "Zoe seems to trust you,"I said."What  were you guys talk ing about, anyway—
something dangerous about the quest?" 
"When?" 
Yesterday morning on the pavilion," I sai d, before I could stop myself. "Something 
about the General." 
Her face darkened. "How did you… The invisibility hat. Were you eavesdropping?" 
"No! I mean, not really. I just—" 
I was saved from trying to e xplain when Zoe and Grover a rrived with the drinks and 
pastries. Hot chocolate for Bianca and me. Coff ee for them. I got a blueberry muffin, and it 
was so good I could almost ignore th e outraged look Bianca was giving me. 
"We should do the tracking spell," Zoe said. "Grover, do you have any acorns left?" 
"Umm," Grover mumbled. He was chewing on a bran muffin, wrapper and all. "I think 
so. I just need to—" 
He froze. I was about to ask what was wrong, when a warm breeze rustled past, like a gust of 
springtime had gotten lost in the middle of wi nter. Fresh air seasoned with wildflowers and 
sunshine. And something else—almost like a voice, trying to say something. A warning. 
Zoe gasped. "Grover, thy cup." Grover dropped his coffee cup, which was deco rated with pictures of birds. Suddenly 
the birds peeled off the cup and flew away—a flock of tiny doves. My rubber rat squeaked. It 
scampered off the railing and into the trees—real fur, real whiskers. 
Grover collapsed next to his coffee, which steamed against the snow. We gathered 
around him and tried to wake him u p. He groaned, his eyes fluttering. 
"Hey!" Thalia said, running up from the street. "I just… What's wrong with Grover?" 
"I don't know," I said. "He collapsed." "Uuuuuhhhh," Grover groaned. 
"Well, get him up!" Thalia said. She had her spear in her hand. She looked behind her as 
if she were being followed. "We have to get out of here." 
  We made it to the edge of the town before the first two skeleton warriors appeared. 
They stepped from the trees on either side of th e road. Instead of gray camouflage, they were  now wearing blue New Mexico St ate Police uniforms, but they ha d the same transparent gray 
skin and yellow eyes. 
They drew their handguns. I'll admit I used to think it would be kind  of cool to learn 
how to shoot a gun, but I changed my mind as soon as the skeleton  warriors pointed theirs at 
me. 
Thalia tapped her bracelet. Aegis spiraled to life on her arm, but the warriors didn't 
flinch. Their glowing yellow eyes bored right into me. 
I drew Riptide, though I wasn't sure what good it would do against guns. 
Zoe and Bianca drew their bows, but Bianca was having trouble because Grover kept 
swooning and leaning against her. 
"Back up," Thalia said. We started to—but then I heard a rustling of  branches. Two more skeletons appeared on 
the road behind us. We were surrounded. 
I wondered where the other skeletons were. I'd seen a dozen at the Smithsonian. Then 
one of the warriors raised a cell phone  to his mouth and spoke into it. 
Except he wasn't speaking. He made a clatte ring, clicking sound, lik e dry teeth on bone. 
Suddenly I understood what was going on. The skel etons had split up to look for us. These 
skeletons were now calling their brethren. Soon we'd have a full party on our hands. 
"It's near," Grover moaned. 
"It's here," I said. 
"No," he insisted. "The gift . The gift from the Wild." 
I didn't know what he was talking about, but I was worried about his condition. He was 
in no shape to walk, much less fight. 
"We'll have to go one-on-one," Thalia said. "Four of them. Four of us. Maybe they'll 
ignore Grover that way." 
"Agreed," said Zoe. "The Wild!" Grover moaned. 
A warm wind blew through the canyon, rustling the trees, but I kept my eyes on the 
skeletons. I remembered the General gloating ov er Annabeth's fate. I remembered the way 
Luke had betrayed her. 
And I charged.  The first skeleton fired. Time slowed down. I won't say I could se e the bullet, but I 
could feel its path, the same way I felt water cu rrents in the ocean. I deflected it off the edge 
of my blade and kept charging. 
The skeleton drew a baton and I sliced off his arms at the elbows. Then I swung Riptide 
through his waist and cut him in half. 
His bones unknit and clattered to  the asphalt in a heap. Almost immediately, they began 
to move, reassembling themselves. The second skeleton clattered his teeth at me and tried to 
fire, but I knocked hi s gun into the snow. 
I thought I was doing pretty well, until the ot her two skeletons shot me in the back. 
"Percy!" Thalia screamed. 
I landed facedown in the street. Then I real ized something… I wasn't dead. The impact 
of the bullets had been dull, like a pu sh from behind, but they hadn't hurt me. 
The Nemean Lion's fur! My coat was bulletproof. 
Thalia charged the second skeleton. Zoe and Bianca started firing arrows at the third 
and fourth. Grover stood there and held his hands out to the trees , looking like he wanted to 
hug them. 
There was a crashing sound in  the forest to our left, like a bulldozer. Maybe the 
skeletons' reinforcements were arriving. I got  to my feet and ducked a police baton. The 
skeleton I'd cut in half was already fully re-formed, coming after me. 
There was no way to stop them. Zoe and Bian ca fired at their heads point-blank, but the 
arrows just whistled straight through their empty skulls. One lunged at Bianca, and I thought 
she was a goner, but she whipped out her hunting knife and stabbed the wa rrior in the chest. 
The whole skeleton erupted into flames, leavi ng a little pile of ashes and a police badge. 
"How did you do that?" Zoe asked. "I don't know," Bianca said nervously. "Lucky stab?" "Well, do it again!" 
Bianca tried, but the remaining three skeletons  were wary of her now. They pressed us 
back, keeping us at baton's length. 
"Plan?" I said as we retreated. Nobody answered. The trees behind the skel etons were shivering. Branches were 
cracking. 
"A gift," Grover muttered.  And then, with a mighty roar, the largest pig I' d ever seen came crashing into the road. 
It was a wild boar, thirty feet high, with a snot ty pink snout and tusks the size of canoes. Its 
back bristled with brown hair, and its eyes were wild and angry. 
"REEEEEEEEET !" it squealed, and raked the three skeletons aside with its tusks. The 
force was so great, they went flying over the trees and into the side  of the mountain, where 
they smashed to pieces, thigh bones and arm bones twirling everywhere. 
Then the pig turned on us. 
Thalia raised her spear, but Grover yelled, "Don't kill it.'" 
The boar grunted and pawed the ground, ready to charge. 
"That's the Erymanthian Boar," Zoe said, trying to stay calm. "I don't think we can kill 
it." 
"It's a gift," Grover said. "A  blessing from the Wild!" 
The boar said " REEEEEEET !" and swung its tusk. Zoe and Bianca dived out of the 
way. I had to push Grover so he wouldn't get launched into the mountain on the Boar Tusk 
Express. 
"Yeah, I feel blessed! " I said. "Scatter!" 
We ran in different directions, and for a moment the boar was confused. 
"It wants to kill us!" Thalia said. 
"Of course," Grover said. "It's wild!" "So how is that a blessing?" Bianca asked. It seemed a fair question to me, but the pig was offended and charged her. She was 
faster than I'd realized. She ro lled out of the way of its hooves and came up behind the beast. 
It lashed out with its tusks and pulverized the WELCOME TO CLOUDCROFT sign. 
I racked my brain, trying to remember the my th of the boar. I was pretty sure Hercules 
had fought this thing once, but I couldn't remember how he'd b eaten it. I had a vague memory 
of the boar plowing down severa l Greek cities before Hercules  managed to subdue it. I hoped 
Cloudcroft was insured against giant wild boar attacks. 
"Keep moving!" Zoe yelled. She and Bianca ra n in opposite directions. Grover danced 
around the boar, playing his pipes while the boar snorted and trie d to gouge him. But Thalia 
and I won the prize for bad luck. When the boar  turned on us, Thalia  made the mistake of 
raising Aegis in defense. The sight of the Medusa head made the boar squeal in outrage. 
Maybe it looked too much like one of his relatives. The boar charged us. 
We only managed to keep ahead of it becau se we ran uphill, and we could dodge in and 
out of trees while the boar  had to plow through them.  On the other side of the hill, I found an old stretch of train tracks , half buried in the 
snow. 
"This way.'" I grabbed Thalia's arm and we  ran along the rails while the boar roared 
behind us, slipping and sliding as it tried to na vigate the steep hillside. Its hooves just were 
not made for this, thank the gods. 
Ahead of us, I saw a covered tunnel. Past th at, an old trestle bridge spanning a gorge. I 
had a crazy idea. 
"Follow me!" 
Thalia slowed down—I didn't have time to ask why—but I pulle d her along and she 
reluctantly followed. Behind us , a ten-ton pig tank was knoc king down pine trees and 
crushing boulders under its hooves as it chased us. 
Thalia and I ran into the tunnel and came out on the other side. 
"No!" Thalia screamed. She'd turned as white as ice. We were at the edge of the bridge. Below, the mountain 
dropped away into a snow-filled gor ge about seventy feet below. 
The boar was right behind us. "Come on!" I said. "It'll hold our weight, probably." 
"I can't!" Thalia yelled. Her eyes were wild with fear. 
The boar smashed into the covered tu nnel, tearing through at full speed. 
"Now!" I yelled at Thalia. She looked down and swallowed. I swear she was turning green. 
I didn't have time to process why. The boar was charging through the tunnel, straight 
toward us. Plan B. I tackled Thalia and sent us  both sideways off the edge of the bridge, into 
the side of the mountain. We slid on Aegis li ke a snow-board, over ro cks and mud and snow, 
racing downhill. The boar was less fortunate; it coul dn't turn that fast, so all ten tons of the 
monster charged out onto the tiny trestle, which buckled under its weight. The boar free-fell 
into the gorge with a mighty squeal and landed in a snow drift with a huge POOOOOF ! 
Thalia and I skidded to a stop. We were both breathing hard. I was cut up and bleeding. 
Thalia had pine needles in her hair. Next to us, the wild boar was squealing and struggling. 
All I could see was the bristly tip of its back. It was wedged completely in the snow like 
Styrofoam packing. It didn't seem to be hur t, but it wasn't going anywhere, either. 
I looked at Thalia. "You're afraid of heights."  Now that we were safely down the mountain, her eyes had their usual angry look. 
"Don't be stupid." 
"That explains why you freaked out on Apollo's  bus. Why you didn't want to talk about 
it." 
She took a deep breath. Then she brushed th e pine needles out of her hair. "If you tell 
anyone, I swear—" 
"No, no," I said. "That's cool. It's just… the daughter of Zeus, the Lord of the Sky, 
afraid of heights?" 
She was about to knock me into the snow when, above us, Grover's voice called, 
"Helloooooo?" 
"Down here!" I shouted. 
A few minutes later, Zoe, Bianca, and Gr over joined us. We stood watching the wild 
boar struggle in the snow. 
"A blessing of the Wild," Grover said, though he now looked agitated. 
"I agree," Zoe said. "We must use it." 
Christmas tree. "Explain to me why you're  so sure this pig is a blessing." 
Grover looked over, distracted. "It's our ride  west. Do you have any idea how fast this 
boar can travel?" 
"Fun," I said. "Like… pig cowboys." Grover nodded. "We need to get aboard. I wish… I wish I had more time to look 
around. But it's gone now." 
"What's gone?" Grover didn't seem to hear me. He walked over to the boar and jumped onto its back. 
Already the boar was starting to make some headway through the drift. Once it broke free, 
there'd be no stopping it. Grove r took out his pipes. He star ted playing a snappy tune and 
tossed an apple in front of the boar. The apple floated and spun right above the boar's nose, 
and the boar went nuts, straining to get it. 
"Automatic steering," Thalia murmured. "Great." 
She trudged over and jumped on behind Grover, wh ich still left plenty of room for the 
rest of us. 
Zoe and Bianca walked toward the boar.  "Wait a second," I said. "Do you two know what Grover is talking about—this wild 
blessing?" 
"Of course," Zoe said. "Did you not feel it in the wind? It was so strong… I never 
thought I would sense th at presence again." 
"What presence?" 
She stared at me like I was an idiot. "The  Lord of the Wild, of course. Just for a 
moment, in the arrival of the boa r, I felt the presence of Pan." 
  THIRTEEN  
WE VISIT THE JUNKYARD OF THE GODS  
We rode the boar until sunset, which was about as much as my back end could take. 
Imagine riding a giant steel brush over a bed of  gravel all day. That's  about how comfortable 
boar-riding was. 
I have no idea how many miles we covered, but the mountains faded into the distance 
and were replaced by miles of flat, dry land. The grass and scrub brus h got sparser until we 
were galloping (do boars gallop?) across the desert. 
As night fell, the boar came to a stop at a creek bed and snorted. He started drinking the 
muddy water, then ripped a saguaro cactus out of  the ground and chewed it, needles and all. 
"This is as far as he'll go," Grover said. "We need to get off while he's eating." Nobody needed convincing. We slipped off the boar's back while he was busy ripping 
up cacti. Then we waddled away as best we could with our saddle sores. 
After its third saguaro and another drink of muddy water, the boar squealed and 
belched, then whirled around and galloped back toward the east. 
"It likes the mountains better," I guessed. 
"I can't blame it," Thalia said. "Look." 
Ahead of us was a two-lane road half covere d with sand. On the other side of the road 
was a cluster of buildings too small to be a town: a boarded-up house, a taco shop that looked 
like it hadn't been open since before Zoe Nightsh ade was born, and a white stucco post office 
with a sign that said GILA CLAW, ARIZONA hanging crooked above the door. Beyond that 
was a range of hills… but then I noticed they weren't regular hills. The countryside was way 
too flat for that. The hills were enormous mo unds of old cars, appl iances, and other scrap 
metal. It was a junkyard that seemed to go on forever. 
"Whoa," I said. 
"Something tells me we're not going to find a ca r rental here," Thalia  said. She looked at 
Graver. "I don't suppose you got another wild boar up your sleeve?" 
Grover was sniffing the wind, l ooking nervous. He fished ou t his acorns and threw them 
into the sand, then played his pipes. They r earranged themselves in a pattern that made no 
sense to me, but Grover looked concerned. 
"That's us," he said. "Tho se five nuts right there." 
"Which one is me?" I asked.  "The little deformed one," Zoe suggested. 
"Oh, shut up." "That cluster right there, " Grover said, pointing to the left, "that's trouble." 
"A monster?" Thalia asked. 
Grover looked uneasy. "I don't smell anythi ng, which doesn't make sense. But the 
acorns don't lie. Our next challenge…" 
He pointed straight toward the junkyard. With  the sunlight almost gone now, the hills of 
metal looked like something on an alien planet. 
  We decided to camp for the night and try the junkyard in  the morning. None of us 
wanted to go Dumpster -diving in the dark. 
Zoe and Bianca produced five sleeping ba gs and foam mattresses out of their 
backpacks. I don't know how they did it, beca use the packs were tiny, but must've been 
enchanted to hold so much stuff. I'd noticed th eir bows and quivers were also magic. I never 
really thought about it, but when  the Hunters needed them, they just appeared slung over their 
backs. And when they didn't, they were gone. 
The night got chilly fast, so Grover and I collected old boards from the ruined house, 
and Thalia zapped them with an electric shock to start a campfire. Pre tty soon we were about 
as comfy as you can get in a rundown ghost town in the middle of nowhere. 
"The stars are out," Zoe said. 
She was right. There were millions of them, with no city lights to turn the sky orange. 
"Amazing," Bianca said. "I've neve r actually seen the Milky Way." 
"This is nothing," Zoe said. "In the old days, there were more. Whole constellations 
have disappeared because of human light pollution." 
"You talk like you're not human," I said. 
Zoe raised an eyebrow. "I am a Hunter. I car e what happens to the wild places of the 
world. Can the same be said for thee?" 
"For you," Thalia corrected. "Not thee"  
"But you use you for the beginning of a sentence." 
"And for the end," Thalia said. "No thou. No thee . Just you" 
Zoe threw up her hands in exasperation. "I hate this language. It changes too often!"  Grover sighed. He was still looking up at the stars like he was thinking about the light 
pollution problem. "If only Pan were here, he would set things right." 
Zoe nodded sadly. 
"Maybe it was the coffee," Grover said. "I  was drinking coffee, and the wind came. 
Maybe if I drank more coffee…" 
I was pretty sure coffee had nothing to do w ith what had happened in Cloudcroft, but I 
didn't have the heart to tell Grover. I thought ab out the rubber rat and the tiny birds that had 
suddenly come alive when the wind blew. "Grover, do you really think that was Pan? I mean, 
I know you want  it to be." 
"He sent us help," Grover in sisted. "I don't know how or w hy. But it was his presence. 
After this quest is done, I'm going back to New Mexico and drinking a lot of coffee. It's the best lead we've gotten in two thousand years. I was so close ." 
I didn't answer. I didn't want to squash Grover's hopes. 
"What I want to know," Thalia said, looking at Bianca, "is how you destroyed one of the 
zombies. There are a lot more out there somewher e. We need to figure out how to fight them." 
Bianca shook her head. "I don't know. I just  stabbed it and it went up in flames." 
"Maybe there's something special about your knife," I said. "It is the same as mine," Zoe said. "Celesti al bronze, yes. But mine did not affect the 
warriors that way." 
"Maybe you have to hit the skeleton in a certain spot," I said. 
Bianca looked uncomfortable with everybody paying attention to her. 
"Never mind," Zoe told her. "We will find the answer. In the meantime, we should plan 
our next move. When we get through this junky ard, we must continue west. If we can find a 
road, we can hitchhike to the nearest city. I think th at would be Las Vegas." 
I was about to protest that Grover and I ha d had bad experiences in that town, but 
Bianca beat us to it. 
"No!" she said. "Not there!" 
She looked really freaked out, like she'd just been dropped off the steep end of a roller 
coaster. 
Zoe frowned. "Why?" 
Bianca took a shaky breath. "I… I think we stayed there for a while. Nico and I. When 
we were traveling. And then, I can't remember…"  Suddenly I had a really bad thought. I remembered what 
Bianca had told me about Nico and her stayin g in a hotel for a while. I met Graver's 
eyes, and I got the feeling he was thinking the same thing. 
"Bianca," I said. "That hotel you stayed at . Was it possibly called the Lotus Hotel and 
Casino?" 
Her eyes widened. "How could you know that?" 
"Oh, great," I said. "Wait," Thalia said. "What is the Lotus Casino?" "A couple of years ago," I said, "Grover, Annabeth, and I got tr apped there. It's 
designed so you never want to leave. We stayed  for about an hour. When we came out, five 
days had passed. It makes time speed up." 
"No," Bianca said. "No, that's not possible." 
"You said somebody came and got you out," I remembered. "Yes." 
"What did he look like? What did he say?" 
"I… I don't remember. Please, I really don't want to talk about this." 
Zoe sat forward, her eyebrows knit with c oncern. "You said that Washington, D.C., had 
changed when you went back last summer. Y ou didn't remember the subway being there." 
"Yes, but—" "Bianca," Zoe said, "can you tell me the name of the president of th e United States right 
now?" 
"Don't be silly," Bianca said. She told us the correct name of the president. 
"And who was the president before that?" Zoe asked. 
Bianca thought for a while. "Roosevelt." 
Zoe swallowed. "Theodore or Franklin'?" 
"Franklin," Bianca said. "F.D.R." 
"Like FDR Drive?" I asked. Because seriousl y, that's about all I knew about F.D.R. 
"Bianca," Zoe said. "F.D.R. was not the last  president. That was about seventy years 
ago."  "That's impossible," Bianca sa id. "I… I'm not that old." 
She stared at her hands as if to make sure they weren't wrinkled. 
Thalia's eyes turned sad. I guess she knew what  it was like to get pulled out of time for a 
while. "It's okay, Bianca, The important thing is you and Nico are safe. You made it out." 
"But how?" I said. "We were only in there for an hour and we barely escaped. How 
could you have escaped after being there for so long?" 
"I told you." Bianca looked about ready to cry. "A man came and said it was time to 
leave. And—" 
"But who? Why did he do it?" 
Before she could answer, we were hit w ith a blazing light from down the road. The 
headlights of a car appeared out of nowhere. I was half hoping it was Apollo, come to give us 
a ride again, but the engine was way too sile nt for the sun chariot,  and besides, it was 
nighttime. We grabbed our sleepin g bags and got out of the way as a deathly white limousine 
slid to a stop in front of us. 
The back door of the limo opened right next to me. Before I could step away, the point 
of a sword touched my throat. 
I heard the sound of Zoe and Bi anca drawing their bows. As the owner of the sword got 
out of the car, I moved back very slowly. I ha d to, because he was pushing the point under my 
chin. 
He smiled cruelly. "Not so fast now, are you, punk?" He was a big man with a crew cut, a black leather biker's jacket, black jeans, a white 
muscle shirt, and combat boots. Wraparound shades hid his eyes, but I knew what was behind 
those glasses—hollow sockets filled with flames. 
"Ares," I growled. 
The war god glanced at my friends. "At ease, people." 
He snapped his fingers, and th eir weapons fell to the ground. 
"This is a friendly meeting." He dug the point of his blade a little farther under my chin. 
"Of course I'd like to take your head for a trophy, but someone wants to see you. And I never 
behead my enemies in front of a lady." 
"What lady?" Thalia asked. 
Ares looked over at her. "Well,  well. I heard you were back."  He lowered his sword and pushed me away. 
"Thalia, daughter of Zeus," Ares mused. "You're not hanging out with very good 
company." 
"What's your business, Ares?" sh e said. "Who's in the car?" 
Ares smiled, enjoying the attention. "Oh, I doubt she wants to meet the rest of you. 
Particularly not them ." He jutted his chin toward Zo e and Bianca. "Why don't you all go get 
some tacos while you wait? Only take Percy a few minutes." 
"We will not leave him alone with  thee, Lord Ares," Zoe said. 
"Besides," Grover managed, "the taco place is closed." Ares snapped his fingers again. The lights in side the taqueria s uddenly blazed to life. 
The boards flew off the door and the CLOSED sign flipped to OPEN. "You were saying, goat 
boy?" 
"Go on," I told my friends. "I'll handle this." 
I tried to sound more confident than I felt. I don't think Ares was fooled. "You heard the boy," Ares said. "He's big a nd strong. He's got things under control." 
My friends reluctantly headed over to the taco restaurant. Ares regarded me with 
loathing, then opened the limousine door like a chauffeur. 
"Get inside, punk," he said. "And mind your manne rs. She's not as forgiving of rudeness 
as I am." 
When I saw her, my jaw dropped. 
I forgot my name. I forgot where I was. I fo rgot how to speak in complete sentences. 
She was wearing a red satin dress and her hair  was curled in a cascade of ringlets. Her 
face was the most beautiful I'd ever seen: perfect makeup, dazzling eyes, a smile that 
would've lit up the dark  side of the moon. 
Thinking back on it, I can't tell you who she looked like. 
Or even what color her hair or her eyes were. Pick the most beautiful actress you can 
think of. The goddess was ten times more beautiful  than that. Pick your favorite hair color, 
eye color, whatever. The goddess had that. 
When she smiled at me, just for a moment she looked a little like Annabeth. Then like 
this television actress I used to have a crush on in fifth grade. Then… well, you get the idea.  "Ah, there you are, Percy," the goddess said. "I am Aphrodite." 
I slipped into the seat across from he r and said something like, "Um uh gah." 
She smiled. "Aren't you sweet. Hold this, please." 
She handed me a polished mirror the size of  a dinner plate and had me hold it up for 
her. She leaned forward and dabbed at her lipstick, though I couldn't see anything wrong with 
it. 
"Do you know why you're here?" she asked. 
I wanted to respond. Why couldn't I form a complete sentence? She was only a lady. A 
seriously beautiful lady. With eyes like pools of spring water… Whoa. 
I pinched my own arm, hard. 
"I… I don't know," I managed. 
"Oh, dear," Aphrodite sai d. "Still in denial?" 
Outside the car, I could hear Ares chuckling. I had a feelin g he could hear every word 
we said. The idea of him being out there made  me angry, and that helped clear my mind. 
"I don't know what you're talking about," I said. "Well then, why are you on this quest?" "Artemis has been captured!" Aphrodite rolled her eyes. "Oh, Artemis. Please. Talk about a hopeless case. I mean, if 
they were going to kidnap a goddess, she s hould be breathtakingly beautiful, don't you think? 
I pity the poor dears who have  to imprison Artemis. Bo-ring!" 
"But she was chasing a monster, " I protested. "A really, really  bad monster. We have to 
find it!" 
Aphrodite made me hold the mirror a li ttle higher. She seemed to have found a 
microscopic problem at the corner of her ey e and dabbed at her mascara. "Always some 
monster. But my dear Percy, that is why the others are on this quest. I'm more interested in 
you." 
My heart pounded. I didn't want to answer, but her eyes drew an answer right out of my 
mouth. "Annabeth is in trouble." 
Aphrodite beamed. "Exactly!" "I have to help her," I said. "I've been having these dreams." 
"Ah, you even dream about her! That's so cute!"  "No! I mean… that's not what I meant." 
She made a tsk-tsk sound. "Percy, I'm on your side. I'm the reason you're here, after all." 
I stared at her. "What?" "The poisoned T-shirt the Stoll brothers gave  Phoebe," she said. "D id you think that was 
an accident? Sending Blackjack to find you? Helping you sneak out of the camp?" 
"You did that?" 
"Of course! Because really, how boring these Hunters . are! A quest for some monster, 
blah blah blah. Saving Artemis. Let her stay  lost, I say. But a quest for true love—" 
"Wait a second, I never said—" 
"Oh, my dear. You don't need to say it. You do know Annabeth was close to joining the 
Hunters, don't you?" 
I blushed. "I wasn't sure—" "She was about to throw her life away! And you, my dear, y ou can save her from that. 
It's so romantic!" 
"Uh…" 
"Oh, put the mirror down," Aphrodi te ordered. "I look fine." 
I hadn't realized I was still holding it, but as soon as I put it down, I noticed my arms 
were sore. 
"Now listen, Percy," Aphrodite  said. "The Hunters are your enemies. Forget them and 
Artemis and the monster. That's not important . You just concentrate on finding and saving 
Annabeth." 
"Do you know where she is?" 
Aphrodite waved her hand irri tably. "No, no. I leav e the details to you. But it's been 
ages since we've had a good tragic love story." 
"Whoa, first of all, I never said anythi ng about love. And second, what's up with 
tragic !" 
"Love conquers all," Aphrodite promised. "Look at Helen and Paris. Did they let 
anything come between them?" 
"Didn't they start the Trojan War a nd get thousands of people killed?" 
"Pfft. That's not the point. Follow your heart."  "But… I don't know where it's going. My heart, I mean." 
She smiled sympathetically. She really was beautiful. And not just because she had a 
pretty face or anything. She believed in love so much, it was impossible not to feel giddy 
when she talked about it. 
"Not knowing is half the fun," Aphrodite said . "Exquisitely painful,  isn't it? Not being 
sure who you love and who loves you? Oh, you kids! It's so cute I'm going to cry." 
"No, no," I said. "Don't do that." "And don't worry," she said. "I'm not going to let this be easy and boring for you. No, I 
have some wonderful surprises in store.  Anguish. Indecision. Oh, you just wait." 
"That's really okay," I told her. "Don't go to any trouble." "You're so cute. I wish all my daughters could br eak the heart of a boy as nice as you." 
Aphrodite's eyes were tearing up. "Now, you'd better go. And do be careful in my husband's 
territory, Percy. Don't take anything. He is aw fully fussy about his trinkets and trash." 
"What?" I asked. "You mean Hephaestus?" But the car door opened and Ares grabbed my shoulder, pulling me out of the car and 
back into the desert night. 
My audience with the goddess of love was over. 
"You're lucky, punk." Ares pushed me away from the limo. "Be grateful." "For what?" 
"That we're being so nice. If it was up to me—" 
"So why haven't you killed me?" I shot back. It was a stupid thing to say to the god of 
war, but being around him always ma de me feel angry and reckless. 
Ares nodded, like I'd finally said something intelligent. 
"I'd love to kill you, seriously," he said. "But see, I got a situation. Word on Olympus is 
that you might start the biggest wa r in history. I can't risk messi ng that up. Besides, Aphrodite 
thinks you're some kinda soap-opera star or  something. I kill you, that makes me look bad 
with her. But don't worry. I haven't forgotten my promise. Some day soon, kid— real soon—
you're going to raise your sword to fight, and you 're going to remember the wrath of Ares." 
I balled my fists. "Why wait? I beat you once. How's that ankle healing up?" 
He grinned crookedly. "Not bad, punk. But you got nothing on th e master of taunts. I'll 
start the fight when I'm good and ready. Until then… Get lost."  He snapped his fingers and the world did a three-sixty, spinni ng in a cloud of red dust. I 
fell to the ground. 
When I stood up again, the limousine was gone. The road, the taco re staurant, the whole 
town of Gila Claw was gone. My friends and I were standing in the middle of the junkyard, 
mountains of scrap metal stretched out in every direction. 
"What did she want  with you?" Bianca asked, once I'd told them about Aphrodite. 
"Oh, uh, not sure," I lied. "She said to be careful in her husband's junkyard. She said not 
to pick anything up." 
Zoe narrowed her eyes. "The goddess of love w ould not make a specia l trip to tell thee 
that. Be careful, Percy. Aphrodite has led many heroes astray." 
"For once I agree with Zoe," Thalia  said. "You can't trust Aphrodite." 
Grover was looking at me funny. Being empathic and all, he  could usually read my 
emotions, and I got the feeling he knew exac tly what Aphrodite had talked to me about. 
"So," I said, anxious to change the su bject, "how do we get out of here?" 
"That way," Zoe said. "That is west." "How can you tell?" 
In the light of the full moon, I was surprised how well I could see her roll her eyes at 
me. "Ursa Major is in the north," she said, "which means that must be west." 
She pointed west, then at the northern c onstellation, which was hard to make out 
because there were so many other stars. 
"Oh, yeah," I said. "The bear thing." 
Zoe looked offended. "Show some respect. It was a fine bear . A worthy opponent." 
"You act like it was real." 
"Guys," Grover broke in. "Look!" 
We'd reached the crest of a junk mountai n. Piles of metal objects glinted in the 
moonlight: broken heads of bronze horses, metal legs from human statue s, smashed chariots, 
tons of shields and swords and other weapons, along with more modern stuff, like cars that 
gleamed gold and silver, refrigerators, wa shing machines, and computer monitors. 
"Whoa," Bianca said. "That stuff… some of it looks like real gold."  "It is," Thalia said grimly. "Like Percy sa id, don't touch anything. This is the junkyard 
of the gods." 
"Junk?" Grover picked up a b eautiful crown made of gold, silver, and jewels. It was 
broken on one side, as if it had been split by an axe. "You call this junk?" 
He bit off a point and began to chew. "It's delicious!" 
Thalia swatted the crown out of his hands. "I'm serious!" 
"Look!" Bianca said. She raced down the hill, tripping over bronze coils and golden 
plates. She picked up a bow that glowed silver in moonlight. "A Hunter's bow!" 
She yelped in surprise as the bow began to sh rink, and became a hair clip shaped like a 
crescent moon. "It's just like Percys sword!" 
Zoe's face was grim. "Leave it, Bianca." "But—" 
"It is here for a reason.  Anything thrown away in this junky ard must stay in this yard. It 
is defective. Or cursed." 
Bianca reluctantly set the hair clip down. 
"I don't like this place," Thalia said. She gripped the shaft of her spear. 
"You think we're going to get attacked by killer refrigerators?" I asked. 
She gave me a hard look. "Zoe  is right, Percy. Things ge t thrown away here for a 
reason. Now come on, let's get across the yard." 
"That's the second time you've agreed with Zoe," I muttered, but Thalia ignored me. 
We started picking our way through the hills a nd valleys of junk. The stuff seemed to go 
on forever, and if it hadn't been for Ursa Major,  we would've gotten lost. All the hills pretty 
much looked the same. 
I'd like to say we left the stuff alone, but th ere was too much cool junk not to check out 
some of it. I found an electric gu itar shaped like Apollo's lyre th at was so sweet I had to pick 
it up. Grover found a broken tree made  out of metal. It had been chopped to pieces, but some 
of the branches still had golde n birds in them, and they whirred around when Grover picked 
them up, trying to flap their wings. 
Finally, we saw the edge of the junkyard about  half a mile ahead of  us, the lights of a 
highway stretching through the desert . But between us and the road… 
"What is that?" Bianca gasped.  Ahead of us was a hill much bigger and longer than the others. It was like a metal mesa, 
the length of a football field an d as tall as goalposts. At one end of the me sa was a row of ten 
thick metal columns, wedged tightly together. 
Bianca frowned. "They look like—" 
"Toes," Grover said. 
Bianca nodded. "Really, r eally large toes." 
Zoe and Thalia exchanged nervous looks. 
"Let's go around," Thalia said. "Far  around." 
"But the road is right over there," I protested. "Quicker to climb over." 
Ping.  
Thalia hefted her spear and Zoe drew her bow, but then I realiz ed it was only Grover. 
He had thrown a piece of  scrap metal at the toes and hit one, making a deep echo, as if the 
column were hollow. 
"Why did you do that?" Zoe demanded. 
Grover cringed. "I don't know. I, uh, don't like fake feet?" 
"Come on." Thalia looked at me. " Around." 
I didn't argue. The toes were starting to freak  me out, too. I mean, who sculpts ten-foot-
tall metal toes and sticks them in a junkyard? 
After several minutes of walking, we fina lly stepped onto the highway, an abandoned 
but well-lit stretch of black asphalt. 
"We made it out," Zoe said. "Thank the gods." 
But apparently the gods didn't want to be th anked. At that moment, I heard a sound like 
a thousand trash compactors crushing metal. 
I whirled around. Behind us, the scrap mountain was boiling, rising up. The ten toes 
tilted over, and I realized why they looked like toes. They were toes. The thing that rose up 
from the metal was a bronze giant in full Greek battle armor. He was impossibly tall—a 
skyscraper with legs and arms. He gleamed wick edly in the moonlight. He looked down at us, 
and his face was deformed. The left side was par tially melted off. His joints creaked with rust, 
and across his armored chest, written in thick dust by some giant finger, were the words 
WASH ME. 
"Talos!" Zoe gasped. 
"Who—who's Talos?" I stuttered.  "One of Hephaestus's creations," Thalia said. "But that can't be the original. It's too 
small. A prototype, maybe. A defective model. 
The metal giant didn't like the word defective . 
He moved one hand to his sword belt and drew his weapon. The sound of it coming out 
of its sheath was horrible, meta l screeching against metal. The blade was a hundred feet long, 
easy. It looked rusty and dull, but I didn't figure that mattered. Getting hit with that thing 
would be like getting hi t with a battleship. 
"Someone took something," Zoe said. "Who took something?" 
She stared accusingly at me. I shook my head. "I'm a lot of things, but I'm not a thief." 
Bianca didn't say anything. I could swear she looked guilty, but I didn't have much time 
to think about it, because the giant defective Ta los took one step toward  us, closing half the 
distance and making the ground shake. 
"Run!" Grover yelped. Great advice, except that it was hopeless. At a leisurely stroll,  this thing could 
outdistance us easily. 
We split up, the way we'd done with the Nem ean Lion. Thalia drew her shield and held 
it up as she ran down th e highway. The giant swung his swor d and took out a row of power 
lines, which exploded in sparks a nd scattered across Thalia's path. 
Zoe's arrows whistled toward the creature's face but shattered harmlessly against the 
metal. Grover brayed like a baby goat and went climbing up a mountain of metal. 
Bianca and I ended up next to each other, hiding behind a broken chariot. 
"You took something," I said. "That bow." 
"No!" she said, but her voice was quivering. 
"Give it back!" I said. "Throw it down!" "I… I didn't take the bow! Besides, it's too late." "What did. you take?" Before she could answer, I heard a massive creaking noise, and a shadow blotted out the 
sky. 
"Move!" I tore down the hill, Bianca right behind me, as the giant's foot smashed a 
crater in the ground where we'd been hiding.  "Hey, Talos!" Grover yelled, but  the monster raised his swor d, looking down at Bianca 
and me. 
Grover played a quick melody on his pipes.  Over at the highway, the downed power 
lines began to dance. I understood what Grov er was going to do a split second before it 
happened. One of the poles with power lines still attached flew  toward Talos's back leg and 
wrapped around his calf The lines sparked and sent a jolt of elect ricity up the giant's backside. 
Talos whirled around, creaking and sparking. Grover had bought us a few seconds. 
"Come on!" I told Bianca. Bu t she stayed frozen. From her pocket, she brought out a 
small metal figurine, a statue of a god. "It… it was for Nico. It was the only statue he didn't 
have." 
"How can you think of Mythomagic at a time like this?" I said. 
There were tears in her eyes. "Throw it down," I said. "Maybe the giant will leave us alone." 
She dropped it reluctantly, but nothing happened. 
The giant kept coming after Grover. It stabbe d its sword into a junk hill, missing Grover 
by a few feet, but scrap metal made an aval anche over him, and then I couldn't see him 
anymore. 
"No!" Thalia yelled. She pointed her spear, a nd a blue arc of light ning shot out, hitting 
the monster in his rusty knee, which buckled. Th e giant collapsed, but im mediately started to 
rise again. It was hard to tell if it could feel anything. There weren't any emotions in its half-
melted face, but I got the sense that it was ab out as ticked off as a twenty-story-tall metal 
warrior could be. 
He raised his foot to stomp and I saw that his sole was treaded like the bottom of a 
sneaker. There was a hole in hi s heel, like a large manhole, a nd there were red words painted 
around it, which I deciphered only after th e foot came down: FO R MAINTENANCE ONLY. 
"Crazy-idea time," I said. 
Bianca looked at me nervously. "Anything." 
I told her about the maintenance hatch. "T here may be a way to  control the thing. 
Switches or something. I'm going to get inside." 
"How? You'll have to stand under its foot! You'll be crushed" 
"Distract it," I said. "I'll just have to time it right." 
Bianca's jaw tightened. "No. I'll go." 
"You can't. You're new at this! You'll die."  "It's my fault the monster came after us," sh e said. "It's my res ponsibility. Here." She 
picked up the little god statue and pressed it into  my hand. "If anything happens, give that to 
Nico. Tell him… tell him I'm sorry." 
"Bianca, no!" 
But she wasn't waiting for me. She charged at the monster's left foot. Thalia had its attention for the moment. She'd learned that the giant was big but slow. If 
you could stay close to it and not get smashed, you could run around it and stay alive. At 
least, it was working so far. 
Bianca got right next to the giant's foot, tr ying to balance hersel f on the metal scraps 
that swayed and shifted with his weight. 
Zoe yelled, "What are you doing?" "Get it to raise its foot!" she said. Zoe shot an arrow toward the monster's face and it flew straight into one nostril. The 
giant straightened and shook its head. 
"Hey, Junk Boy!" I yelled. "Down here." 
I ran up to its big toe and stabbed it with Riptide. The magic blade cut a gash in the 
bronze. 
Unfortunately, my plan worked. Talos looked do wn at me and raised his foot to squash 
me like a bug. I didn't see what Bianca was doing. I had to turn and run. The foot came down 
about two inches behind me and I was knocked in to the air. I hit something hard and sat up, 
dazed. I'd been thrown into an Olympus-Air refrigerator. 
The monster was about to finish me off,  but Grover somehow dug himself out of the 
junk pile. He played his pipe s frantically, and his music sent another power line pole 
whacking against Talos's thigh. The monster turned. Grover should've run, but he must've been too exhausted from the effort of so much  magic. He took two steps, fell, and didn't get 
back up. 
"Grover!" Thalia and I both ran toward him, but I knew we'd be too late. 
The monster raised his sword to smash Grover. Then he froze. Talos cocked his head to one side, like he was hearing strange ne w music. He started 
moving his arms and legs in we ird ways, doing the Funky Chicken. Then he made a fist and 
punched himself in the face. 
"Go, Bianca!" I yelled. Zoe looked horrified. "She is inside ?"  The monster staggered around, and I realized we were still in danger. Thalia and I 
grabbed Grover and ran with him toward the highway. Zoe was already ahead of us. She 
yelled, "How will Bianca get out?" 
The giant hit itself in the head again and dropped his sword. A shudder ran through his 
whole body and he staggered toward the power lines. 
"Look out!" I yelled, but it was too late. 
The giant's ankle snared the lines, and blue  flickers of electricity shot up his body. I 
hoped the inside was insulated. I had no idea wh at was going on in there. The giant careened 
back into the junkyard, and his right hand fell off, landing in the scrap metal with a horrible 
CLANG ! 
His left arm came loose, too. He was falling apart at the joints. 
Talos began to run. 
"Wait!" Zoe yelled. We ran after him, but there was no way we c ould keep up. Pieces of 
the robot kept falling off, getting in our way. 
The giant crumbled from the top down: hi s head, his chest, and finally, his legs 
collapsed. When we reached the wreckage we s earched frantically, yelling Bianca's name. We 
crawled around in the vast hollow pieces and the legs and the head. We searched until the sun 
started to rise, but no luck. 
Zoe sat down and wept. I was stunned to see her cry. 
Thalia yelled in rage and impaled he r sword in the giant's smashed face. 
"We can keep searching," I said. "It's light now. We'll find her." 
"No we won't," Grover said miserably. "It happened just as it was supposed to." "What are you talking about?" I demanded. He looked up at me with big watery eyes. "The prophecy. One shall he lost in the land 
without rain ." 
Why hadn't I seen it? Why had I let her go instead of me? Here we were in the desert. And Bianca di Angelo was gone. 
  FOURTEEN  
I HAVE A DAM PROBLEM 
At the edge of the dump, we found a tow truck so old it might've been thrown away 
itself. But the engine started, and it had a fu ll tank of gas, so we decided to borrow it. 
Thalia drove. She didn't seem as stunned as Zoe or Grover or me. 
"The skeletons are still out there," she reminded us. "We need to keep moving." She navigated us through the desert, under clear blue skies, the sand so  bright it hurt to 
look at. Zoe sat up front with Th alia. Grover and I sat in the pickup bed, leaning against the 
tow wench. The air was cool and dry, but the ni ce weather just seemed like an insult after 
losing Bianca. 
My hand closed around the little figurine that  had cost her life. I still couldn't even tell 
what god it was supposed to be. Nico would know. 
Oh, gods… what was I going to tell Nico? 
I wanted to believe that Bianca was still a live somewhere. But I had a bad feeling that 
she was gone for good. 
"It should've been me," I said. "I should've gone into the giant." "Don't say that!" Grover panicked. "It's bad enough Annabeth is gone, and now Bianca. Do you thin k I could stand it if…" He sniffled. "Do 
you think anybody else would be my best friend?" 
"Ah, Grover…" 
He wiped under his eyes with an oily cloth that left his face grimy, like he had on war 
paint. "I'm… I'm okay." 
But he wasn't okay. Ever since the encount er in New Mexico—w hatever had happened 
when that wild wind blew th rough—he seemed really fragile , even more emotional than 
usual. I was afraid to talk to him about it, because he might start bawling. 
At least there's one good thing about having a friend who gets frea ked out more than 
you do. I realized I couldn't stay depressed. I ha d to set aside thinking about Bianca and keep 
us going forward, the way Thalia was doing. I wondered what she and Zoe were talking about 
in the front of the truck. 
   The tow truck ran out of gas at the edge of a river canyon. That  was just as well, 
because the road dead-ended. 
Thalia got out and slammed the door. Immedi ately, one of the tires blew. "Great. What 
now?" 
I scanned the horizon. There wasn't much to see. Desert in all directions, occasional 
clumps of barren mountains plopped here and there. The canyon was the only thing 
interesting. The river itself wasn't very big, ma ybe fifty yards across, green water with a few 
rapids, but it carved a huge scar out of the de sert. The rock cliffs dropped away below us. 
"There's a path," Grover said. "We could get to the river." 
I tried to see what he was talking about, and finally no ticed a tiny ledge winding down 
the cliff face. "That's a goat path," I said. 
"So?" he asked. 
"The rest of us aren't goats." 
"We can make it," Grov er said. "I think." 
I thought about that. I'd done cliffs before, but I didn't like them. Then I looked over at 
Thalia and saw how pale she'd gotten. Her problem  with heights… she'd never be able to do 
it. 
"No," I said. "I, uh, think we should go farther upstream." Grover said, "But—" 
"Come on," I said. "A walk won't hurt us." I glanced at Thalia. Her eyes said a quick Thank you . 
We followed the river about half a mile befo re coming to an easier slope that led down 
to the water. On the shore was a canoe rental operation that was clos ed for the season, but I 
left a stack of golden drachmas on the counter and a note saying IOU two canoes . 
"We need to go upstream," Zoe said. It was the first time I'd heard her speak since the 
junkyard, and I was worried about how bad sh e sounded, like somebody with the flu. "The 
rapids are too swift." 
"Leave that to me," I said. We  put the canoes in the water. 
Thalia pulled me aside as we were gett ing the oars. "Thanks for back there." 
"Don't mention it." "Can you really…" She nodded to the rapids. "You know."  "I think so. Usually I'm good with water." 
"Would you take Zoe?" she asked. "I th ink, ah, maybe you can talk to her." 
"She's not going to like that." "Please? I don't know if I can stand being in  the same boat with her. She's… she's 
starting to worry me." 
It was about the last thing I wanted to do, but I nodded. 
Thalia's shoulders relaxed. "I owe you one." 
"Two." 
"One and a half," Thalia said. 
She smiled, and for a second, I remembered that  I actually liked her when she wasn't 
yelling at me. She turned and helped Grover get their canoe into the water. 
As it turned out, I didn't even need to cont rol the currents. As soon as we got in the 
river, I looked over the edge of the boat and found a couple of naiads staring at me. 
They looked like regular teenage girls, the kind you'd see in an y mall, except for the fact 
that they were underwater. 
Hey, I said. 
They made a bubbling sound that may have be en giggling. I wasn't sure. I had a hard 
time understanding naiads. 
We're heading upstream , I told them. Do you think you could — 
Before I could even finish, the naiads each chose a canoe and began pushing us up the 
river. We started so fast 
Grover fell into his canoe with his hooves sticking up in the air. 
"I hate naiads," Zoe grumbled. 
A stream of water squirted up from the b ack of the boat and hit Zoe in the face. 
"She-devils!" Zoe went for her bow. 
"Whoa," I said. "They're just playing." 
"Cursed water spirits. They've never forgiven me." "Forgiven you for what?"  She slung her bow back over her shoulder . "It was a long time ago. Never mind." 
We sped up the river, the cliffs looming up on either side of us. 
"What happened to Bianca wasn't your fault," I to ld her. "It was my fault. I let her go." 
I figured this would give Zoe an excuse to st art yelling at me. At least that might shake 
her out of feeling depressed. 
Instead, her shoulders slumped. "No, Percy. I pushed her in to going on the quest. I was 
too anxious. She was a powerful half-blood. She ha d a kind heart, as well. I… I thought she 
would be the next lieutenant." 
"But you're the lieutenant." 
She gripped the strap of her quiver. She l ooked more tired than I'd ever seen her. 
"Nothing can last forever, Percy. Over two thousand years I have led the Hunt, and my 
wisdom has not improved. Now Ar temis herself is in danger." 
"Look, you can't blame yourself for that." 
"If I had insisted on going with her—" 
"You think you could've fought something pow erful enough to kidnap Artemis? There's 
nothing you could have done." 
Zoe didn't answer. The cliffs along the river were getting ta ller. Long shadows fell across the water, 
making it a lot colder, even though the day was bright. 
Without thinking about it, I took Riptide out of my pocket. Zoe looked at the pen, and 
her expression was pained. 
"You made this," I said. 
"Who told thee?" "I had a dream about it." She studied me. I was sure she was going to call me crazy, but she just sighed. "It was a 
gift. And a mistake." 
"Who was the hero?" I asked. Zoe shook her head. "Do not make me say his name. I swore never to speak it again." 
"You act like I should know him." 
"I am sure you do, hero. Don't all you boys want to be just like him?"  Her voice was so bitter, I decided not to ask what she meant. I looked down at Riptide, 
and for the first time, I wondered if it was cursed. 
"Your mother was a water goddess?" I asked. 
"Yes, Pleione. She had five daughters. My sisters and I. The Hesperides." 
"Those were the girls who lived in a garden at the edge of the West. With the golden 
apple tree and a dragon guarding it." 
"Yes," Zoe said wistfully. "Ladon." "But weren't there only four sisters'?" 
"There are now. I was exiled. Forgotten. Blotted out as if I never existed." 
"Why?" 
Zoe pointed to my pen. "Because I betrayed  my family and helped a hero. You won't 
find that in the legend either. He never spoke of  me. After his direct assault on Ladon failed, I 
gave him the idea of how to steal th e apples, how to trick my father, but he took all the 
credit." 
"But—" 
Gurgle, gurgle , the naiad spoke in my mind. The canoe was slowing down. 
I looked ahead, and I saw why. 
This was as far as they could take us. The river was blocked. A dam the size of a 
football stadium stood in our path. 
"Hoover Dam," Thalia said. "It's huge." 
We stood at the river's edge, looking up at a curve of concrete that loomed between the 
cliffs. People were walking along the top of the da m. They were so tiny they looked like fleas. 
The naiads had left with a lot of grumbling—not in words I could understand, but it was 
obvious they hated this dam blocking up their nice river. Our canoes floated back 
downstream, swirling in the wake fr om the dam's discharge vents. 
"Seven hundred feet tall," I said. "Built in the 1930s." 
"Five million cubic acres of water," Thalia said. 
Graver sighed. "Largest constructio n project in the United States." 
Zoe stared at us. "How do you know all that?"  "Annabeth," I said. "She liked architecture." 
"She was nuts about monuments," Thalia said. "Spouted facts all the time." Grover sniffled. "So annoying." 
"I wish she were here," I said. 
The others nodded. Zoe was still looking at us  strangely, but I didn't care. It seemed like 
cruel fate that we'd come to Hoover Dam, one of Annabeth's personal favorites, and she 
wasn't here to see it. 
"We should go up there," I said. "For her sake. Just to say we've been." 
"You are mad," Zoe decided. "But that's wher e the road is." She pointed to a huge 
parking garage next to the top of the dam. "And so, sightseeing it is." 
We had to walk for almost an hour before we found a path that led up to the road. It 
came up on the east side of the river. Then we st raggled back toward the dam. It was cold and 
windy on top. On one side, a big lake spread ou t, ringed by barren desert mountains. On the 
other side, the dam dropped away like the worl d's most dangerous skat eboard ramp, down to 
the river seven hundred feet below, and wa ter that churned from the dam's vents. 
Thalia walked in the middle of the road, fa r away from the edges. Grover kept sniffing 
the wind and looking nervous. He didn't say a nything, but I knew he smelled monsters. 
"How close are they?" I asked him. He shook his head. "Maybe not close. The wind on the dam, the desert all around us… 
the scent can probably carry for miles. But it' s coming from several directions. I don't like 
that." 
I didn't either. It was already Wednesday, onl y two days until wint er solstice, and we 
still had a long way to go. We didn't need any more monsters, 
"There's a snack bar in the visitor center," Thalia said. 
"You've been here before?" I asked. "Once. To see the guardians." She pointed to  the far end of the dam. Carved into the 
side of the cliff was a little plaza with two big bronze statues. They looked kind of like Oscar 
statues with wings. 
"They were dedicated to Zeus when the dam was built," Thalia said. "A gift from 
Athena." 
Tourists were clustered all around them. They seemed to be looking at the statues' feet.  "What are they doing?" I asked. 
"Rubbing the toes," Thalia sai d. "They think it's good luck." 
"Why?" She shook her head. "Mortals ge t crazy ideas. They don't know the statues are sacred to 
Zeus, but they know there's something special about them." 
"When you were here last, did th ey talk to you or anything?" 
Thalia's expression darkened. I could tell th at she'd come here before hoping for exactly 
that—some kind of sign from her dad. Some  connection. "No. They don't do anything. 
They're just big metal statues." 
I thought about the last big metal statue we'd  run into. That hadn't gone so well. But I 
decided not to bring it up. 
"Let us find the dam snack bar," Zoe said. "We should eat while we can." Grover cracked a smile. "The dam snack bar?" Zoe blinked. "Yes. What is funny?" "Nothing," Grover said, trying to keep a stra ight face. "I could use some dam french 
fries." 
Even Thalia smiled at that. "And I need to use the dam restroom." 
Maybe it was the fact that we  were so tired and strung out emotionally, but I started 
cracking up, and Thalia and Grover joined in , while Zoe just looked at us. "I do not 
understand." 
"I want to use the dam water fountain," Grover said. "And…" Thalia tried to catch her br eath. "I want to buy a dam T-shirt." 
I busted up, and I probably would've kept la ughing all day, but th en I heard a noise: 
"Moooo." 
The smile melted off my face. I wondered if the noise was just in my head, but Grover 
had stopped laughing too. He wa s looking around, confused. "Did I just hear a cow?" 
"A dam cow?" Thalia laughed. 
"No," Grover said. "I'm serious." 
Zoe listened. "I hear nothing."  Thalia was looking at me. "Percy, are you okay?" 
"Yeah," I said. "You guys go ahead. I'll be right in." "What's wrong?" Grover asked. 
"Nothing," I said. "I… I just need a minute. To think." 
They hesitated, but I guess I must've looked up set, because they fi nally went into the 
visitor center without me. As soon as they were  gone, I jogged to the north edge of the dam 
and looked over. 
"Moo." 
She was about thirty feet below in the lake, but I could see her clea rly: my friend from 
Long Island Sound, Bessie the cow serpent. 
I looked around. There were groups of kids running along the dam.  A lot of senior 
citizens. Some families. But nobody seemed to be paying Bessie any attention yet. 
"What are you doing here?" I asked her. "Moo!" 
Her voice was urgent, like she was trying to warn me of something. 
"How did you get here?" I as ked. We were thousands of miles from Long Island, 
hundreds of miles inland. There was no way she could've swum all the way here. And yet, 
here she was. 
Bessie swam in a circle and butted her h ead against the side of the dam. "Moo!" 
She wanted me to come with he r. She was telling me to hurry. 
"I can't," I told her. "My friends are inside." 
She looked at me with her sad brown eyes. Then she gave one more urgent "Mooo!," 
did a flip, and disappeared into the water. 
I hesitated. Something was wrong. She was trying to tell me that. I considered jumping 
over the side and following her,  but then I tensed. The hairs on my arms bristled. I looked 
down the dam road to the east a nd I saw two men walking slowly toward me. They wore gray 
camouflage outfits that flic kered over skeletal bodies. 
They passed through a group of kids and pushed them aside. A kid yelled, "Hey!" One 
of the warriors turned, his face ch anging momentarily into a skull. 
"Ah!" the kid yelled, and hi s whole group backed away. 
I ran for the visitor center.  I was almost to the stairs when I heard tires squeal. On the west side of the dam, a black 
van swerved to a stop in the middle of the ro ad, nearly plowing into some old people. 
The van doors opened and more skeleton warriors piled out. I was surrounded. 
I bolted down the stairs and through the museum entrance. The security guard at the 
metal detector yelled, "Hey, kid!" But I didn't stop. 
I ran through the exhibits and ducked behind a tour group. I looked fo r my friends, but I 
couldn't see them anywhere. Where was the dam snack bar? 
"Stop!" The metal-detector guy yelled. 
There was no place to go but into an elevator  with the tour group. I ducked inside just as 
the door closed. 
"We'll be going down seven hundred feet," ou r tour guide said cheerfully. She was a 
park ranger, with long black hair pulled back  in a ponytail and tinted glasses. I guess she 
hadn't noticed that I was being chased. "Don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, the elevator 
hardly ever breaks." 
"Does this go to the snack bar?" I asked her. 
A few people behind me chuckled. The tour guide looked at me. Something about her 
gaze made my skin tingle. 
"To the turbines, young man," the lady said. "W eren't you listening to my fascinating 
presentation upstairs?" 
"Oh, uh, sure. Is there another way out of the dam?" "It's a dead end," a tourist behind me said. "For heaven's sake. The only way out is the 
other elevator." 
The doors opened. 
"Go right ahead, folks," the tour  guide told us. "Another ranger is waiting for you at the 
end of the corridor." 
I didn't have much choice but to go out with the group. 
"And young man," the tour guide called. I looke d back. She'd taken off her glasses. Her 
eyes were startlingly gray, like storm clouds. "T here is always a way out for those clever 
enough to find it." 
The doors closed with the tour guid e still inside, leaving me alone. 
Before I could think too much about the woman in the elevator, a ding came from 
around the corner. The second elevator was ope ning, and I heard an unmistakable sound—the 
clattering of skeleton teeth.  I ran after the tour group, through a tunnel carv ed out of solid rock. It seemed to run 
forever. The walls were moist, and the air humme d with electricity and the roar of water. I 
came out on a U-shaped balcony that overlooked th is huge warehouse area. Fifty feet below, 
enormous turbines were running. It was a big room, but I didn't see any other exit, unless I 
wanted to jump into the turbines and ge t churned up to make electricity. I didn't. 
Another tour guide was talking over the mi crophone, telling the tourists about water 
supplies in Nevada. I prayed that Thalia, Zoe,  and Grover were okay. They might already be 
captured, or eating at the snack bar, completely  unaware that we were being surrounded. And 
stupid me: I had trapped myself in a hole hundreds of feet below the surface. 
I worked my way around the crowd, trying not to be too obvious about it. There was a 
hallway at the other side of the balcony—maybe  some place I could hide. I kept my hand on 
Riptide, ready to strike. 
By the time I got to the opposite side of the balcony, my nerves were shot. I backed into 
the little hallway and watche d the tunnel I'd come from. 
Then right behind me I heard a sharp Chhh! like the voice of a skeleton. 
Without thinking, I uncapped Riptide and spun, slashing with my sword. 
The girl I'd just tried to slice in  half yelped and dropped her Kleenex. 
"Oh my god.'" she shouted. "Do you always kill people when they blow their nose?" 
The first thing that went through my head was that the sword hadn't hurt her. It had 
passed clean through her body, harmlessly. "You're mortal!" 
She looked at me in disbelief. "What's that supposed to mean? Of course I'm mortal! 
How did you get that sword past security?" 
"I didn't—Wait, you can see it's a sword?" The girl rolled her eyes, which were green li ke mine. She had frizzy reddish-brown hair. 
Her nose was also red, like she had a cold. She wore a big maroon Harvard sweatshirt and 
jeans that were covered with marker stains and little holes, like she spent her free time poking 
them with a fork. 
"Well, it's either a sword or the biggest toothpick in the world," she said. "And why 
didn't it hurt me? I mean, not that I'm complaining. Who are you? And whoa, what is that 
you're wearing? Is that made of lion fur?" 
She asked so many questions so fast, it was like she was throwing rocks at me. I 
couldn't think of what to say.  I looked at my sleeves to see if the Nemean Lion pelt had 
somehow changed back to fur, but it still looked like a brown winter coat to me. 
I knew the skeleton warriors were still chasin g me. I had no time to waste. But I just 
stared at the redheaded girl. Then I remembered what Thalia had done at Westover Hall to 
fool the teachers. Maybe I could manipulate the Mist.  I concentrated hard and snapped my fingers . "You don't see a sword, " I told the girl. 
"It's just a ballpoint pen." 
She blinked. "Um… no. It's a sword, weirdo." 
"Who are you?" I demanded. 
She huffed indignantly. "Rachel Elizabet h Dare. Now, are you going to answer my 
questions or should I scream for security?" 
"No!" I said. "I mean, I'm kind of in a hurry. I'm in trouble." "In a hurry or in trouble?" 
"Um, sort of both." 
She looked over my shoulder and her eyes widened. "Bathroom!" "What?" "Bathroom! Behind me! Now!" I don't know why, but I listened to her. I sl ipped inside the boys' bathroom and left 
Rachel Elizabeth Dare standing outside. Later, th at seemed cowardly to me. I'm also pretty 
sure it saved my life. 
I heard the clattering, hissing sounds of skeletons as they came closer. 
My grip tightened on Riptide. What was I thinki ng? I'd left a mortal girl out there to die. 
I was preparing to burst out and fight when R achel Elizabeth Dare started talking in that 
rapid-fire machine gun way of hers. 
"Oh my god! Did you see that kid? It's about time you got here. He tried to kill me! He 
had a sword, for god's sake. You security guys let a sword-swinging luna tic inside a national 
landmark? I mean, jeez! He ran that way toward  those turbine thingies. I think he went over 
the side or something. Maybe he fell." 
The skeletons clattered excite dly. I heard them moving off. 
Rachel opened the door. "All clear. But you'd better hurry." 
She looked shaken. Her face was gray and sweaty. 
I peeked around the corner. Three skeleton wa rriors were running toward the other end 
of the balcony. The way to the elevator was clear for a few seconds. 
"I owe you one, Rachel Elizabeth Dare." 
"What are those things?" she asked. "They looked like—"  "Skeletons?" 
She nodded uneasily. "Do yourself a favor," I said. "Forge t it. Forget you ever saw me." 
"Forget you tried to kill me?" "Yeah. That, too." "But who are you?" 
"Percy—" I started to say. Then th e skeletons turned around. "Gotta go!" 
"What kind of name is Percy Gotta-go?" 
I bolted for the exit.   The cafe was packed with kids enjoying th e best part of the tour—the dam lunch. 
Thalia, Zoe, and Grover were just sitting down with their food. 
We need to leave," I gasped. "Now!" But we  just got our burritos!" Thalia said. Zoe 
stood up, muttering an Ancient Gree k curse. "He's right! Look." 
The cafe windows wrapped all the way around the observation floor, which gave us a 
beautiful panoramic view of the skeletal army that had come to kill us. 
I counted two on the east side of the dam road, blocking the way to Arizona. Three 
more on the west side, guarding Nevada. All of them were armed with batons and pistols. 
But our immediate problem was a lot closer. The three skeletal warriors who'd been 
chasing me in the turbine room now appeared  on the stairs. They saw me from across the 
cafeteria and clattered their teeth. 
"Elevator!" Grover said. We bolted that direct ion, but the doors opened with a pleasant 
ding, and three more warriors stepped out. Ever y warrior was accounted for, minus the one 
Bianca had blasted to flames in New Mexico. We were completely surrounded. 
Then Grover had a brilliant,  totally Grover-like idea. 
"Burrito fight!" he yelled, and flung his Guacamole Grande at the nearest skeleton. 
Now, if you have never been hit by a flyi ng burrito, count yourself  lucky. In terms of 
deadly projectiles, it's right up there with  grenades and cannonballs. Grover's lunch hit the 
skeleton and knocked his skull clean off his shoulde rs. I'm not sure what the other kids in the 
cafe saw, but they went crazy and started th rowing their burritos and baskets of chips and 
sodas at each other, shrieking and screaming.  The skeletons tried to aim their guns, but it was hopeless. Bodies and food and drinks 
were flying everywhere. 
In the chaos, Thalia and I tackled the other two skeletons on the st airs and sent them 
flying into the condiment table. Then we al l raced downstairs, Guac amole Grandes whizzing 
past our heads. 
"What now?" Grover asked as we burst outside. 
I didn't have an answer. The warriors on the road  were closing in from either direction. 
We ran across the street to the pavilion with th e winged bronze statues, but that just put our 
backs to the mountain. 
The skeletons moved forward, forming a cres cent around us. Their brethren from the 
cafe were running up to join them. One was s till putting its skull back on its shoulders. 
Another was covered in ketchup and mustard. Two more had burritos lodged in their rib 
cages. They didn't look happy about it. They drew batons and advanced. 
"Four against eleven," Zoe muttered. "And they cannot die." 
"It's been nice adventuring with you guys," Grover said, his voice trembling. Something shiny caught the corner of my eye.  I glanced behind me at the statue's feet. 
"Whoa," I said. "Their toes really are bright." 
"Percy!" Thalia said. "This isn't the time." 
But I couldn't help staring at  the two giant bronze guys with tall bladed wings like letter 
openers. They were weathered brown except fo r their toes, which shone like new pennies 
from all the times people had rubbed them for good luck. 
Good luck. The blessing of Zeus. I thought about the tour guide in the elevator. Her gray ey es and her smile. What had 
she said? There is always a way for those clever enough to find it . 
"Thalia," I said. "Pray to your dad." 
She glared at me. "He never answers." 
"Just this once," I pleaded. "Ask  for help. I think… I think the statues can give us some 
luck." 
Six skeletons raised their guns . The other five came forwar d with batons. Fifty feet 
away. Forty feet. 
"Do it!" I yelled. 
"No!" Thalia said. "He won't answer me."  "This time is different!" 
"Who says?" I hesitated. "Athena, I think." 
Thalia scowled like she was sure I'd gone crazy. 
"Try it," Grover pleaded. 
Thalia closed her eyes. Her lips moved in a silent prayer. I put in my own prayer to 
Annabeth's mom, hoping I was right that it had been her in that  elevator—that she was trying 
to help us save her daughter. 
And nothing happened. The skeletons closed in. I raised Riptide to  defend myself. Thalia held up her shield. 
Zoe pushed Grover behind her and aimed an arrow at a skeleton's head. 
A shadow fell over me. I thought maybe it was th e shadow of death. Th en I realized it 
was the shadow of an enormous wing. The skel etons looked up too late. A flash of bronze, 
and all five of the baton-wi elders were swept aside. 
The other skeletons opened fire. I raised my lion coat for protection, but I didn't need it. 
The bronze angels stepped in front  of us and folded their wings  like shields. Bullets pinged 
off of them like rain off a co rrugated roof. Both angels slas hed outward, and the skeletons 
went flying across the road. 
"Man, it feels good to stand up!" the first a ngel said. His voice s ounded tinny and rusty, 
like he hadn't had a drink since he'd been built. 
"Will ya look at my toes?" the other said. "Holy Zeus, what were those tourists 
thinking?" 
As stunned as I was by the angels, I was more  concerned with the skeletons. A few of 
them were getting up again, reassemb ling, bony hands groping for their weapons. 
"Trouble!" I said. 
"Get us out of here!" Thalia yelled. Both angels looked down at her. "Zeus's kid?" Yes! "Could I get a please, Miss Zeus's Kid?" an angel asked. 
"Please!" 
The angels looked at e ach other and shrugged. 
"Could use a stretch," one decided.  And the next thing I knew, one of them gr abbed Thalia and me, the other grabbed Zoe 
and Grover, and we flew straight up, over th e dam and the river, the skeleton warriors 
shrinking to tiny specks below us and the sou nd of gunfire echoing o ff the sides of the 
mountains. 
  FIFTEEN  
I WRESTLE SANTA'S EVIL TWIN  
"Tell me when it's over," Thalia said. Her ey es were shut tight. The statue was holding 
on to us so we couldn't fall, but still Thalia clutched his arm like it was the most important 
thing in the world. 
"Everything's fine," I promised. 
"Are… are we very high?" 
I looked down. Below us, a range of snowy mountains zipped by. I stretched out my 
foot and kicked snow off one of the peaks. 
"Nah," I said. "Not that high." "We are in the Sierras.'" Zoe yelled. She a nd Grover were hanging from the arms of the 
other statue. "I have hunted here before. At this speed, we shoul d be in San Francisco in a few 
hours." 
"Hey, hey, Frisco!" our angel said. "Yo, C huck! We could visit those guys at the 
Mechanics Monument again! They know how to party!" 
"Oh, man," the other angel said. "I am so there!" 
"You guys have visited San Francisco?" I asked. 
"We automatons gotta have some fun once in  a while, right?" our statue said. "Those 
mechanics took us over to the de Young Museum and introduced us to these marble lady 
statues, see. And—" 
"Hank!" the other statue Chuck cut in. "They're kids, man." 
"Oh, right." If bronze statues could bl ush, I swear Hank did. "Back to flying." 
We sped up, so I could tell th e angels were excited. The mountains fell away into hills, 
and then we were zipping along ove r farmland and towns and highways. 
Grover played his pipes to pass the time. Zo e got bored and starte d shooting arrows at 
random billboards as we flew by. Every time sh e saw a Target department store—and we 
passed dozens of them—she would peg the store's sign with a few bulls-eyes at a hundred miles an hour. 
Thalia kept her eyes closed the whole way. She muttered to herself a lot, like she was 
praying.  "You did good back there," I told her. "Zeus listened." 
It was hard to tell what she wa s thinking with her eyes closed. 
"Maybe," she said. "How did you get away fr om the skeletons in the generator room, 
anyway? You said they cornered you." 
I told her about the weird mort al girl, Rachel Elizabeth Dare, who seemed to be able to 
see right through the Mist. I t hought Thalia was going to call me crazy, but she just nodded. 
"Some mortals are like that," she said. "Nobody knows why." Suddenly I flashed on someth ing I'd never considered. 
My mom  was like that. She had seen the Mi notaur on Half-Blood Hill and known 
exactly what it was. She hadn't been surprised at  all last year when I'd told her my friend 
Tyson was really a Cyclops. Maybe she'd known all along. No wonder she'd been so scared 
for me as I was growing up. She saw th rough the Mist even better than I did. 
"Well, the girl was annoying," I said. "But I' m glad I didn't vaporize her. That would've 
been bad." 
Thalia nodded. "Must be nice to be a regular mortal." She said that as if she'd given it a 
lot of thought. 
"Where you guys want to land?" Hank asked, waking me up from a nap. 
I looked down and said, "Whoa." 
I'd seen San Francisco in pictures before, but never in real life. It was probably the most 
beautiful city I'd ever seen: kind of like a sm aller, cleaner Manhattan, if Manhattan had been 
surrounded by green hills and fog. Th ere was a huge bay and ships, islands and sailboats, and 
the Golden Gate Bridge sticking up out of th e fog. I felt like I should take a picture or 
something. Greetings from Frisco. Haven't Died Yet. Wish You Were Here . 
"There," Zoe suggested. "By the Embarcadero Building." 
"Good thinking," Chuck said. "Me and Hank can blend in with the pigeons." We all looked at him. "Kidding," he said. "Sheesh, can't statues have a sense of humor?" 
As it turned out, there wasn't much need to blend in. It was early morning and not many 
people were around. We freaked out a homele ss guy on the ferry dock when we landed. He 
screamed when he saw Hank and Chuck and ran off yelling something about metal angels 
from Mars.  We said our good-byes to the angels, who flew  off to party with their statue friends. 
That's when I realized I had no id ea what we were going to do next. 
We'd made it to the West Coast. Artemis wa s here somewhere. Annabeth too, I hoped. 
But I had no idea how to find them, and tomorrow was the winter solstice. Nor did I have any 
clue what monster Artemis had been hunting. It was supposed to find us on the quest. It was 
supposed to "show the trail," but it never had. Now we were stuck on the ferry dock with not 
much money, no friends, and no luck. 
After a brief discussion, we agreed that we needed to figure out just what this mystery 
monster was. 
"But how?" I asked. 
"Nereus," Grover said. 
I looked at him. "What?" "Isn't that what Apollo told you to do? Find Nereus?" 
I nodded. I'd completely forgotten my last conversation with the sun god. 
The old man of the sea," I remembered. "I'm supposed to find him and force him to tell 
us what he knows. But how do I find him?" 
Zoe made a face. "Old Nereus, eh?" 
"You know him?" Thalia asked. 
My mother was a sea goddess. Yes, I know him.Unfortunately, he is never very hard to 
find. Just follow the smell." 
"What do you mean?" I asked. 
"Come," she said without ent husiasm. "I will show thee." 
I knew I was in trouble when we stopped at  the Goodwill drop box. Fi ve minutes later, 
Zoe had me outfitted in a ragged flannel shirt and jeans three sizes too big, bright red 
sneakers, and a floppy rainbow hat. 
"Oh, yeah," Grover said, trying not to bust out laughing, "you look completely 
inconspicuous now." 
Zoe nodded with satisfaction. "A typical male vagrant." 
"Thanks a lot," I grumbled. "Why am I doing this again?" "I told thee. To blend in."  She led the way back down to the waterfr ont. After a long time spent searching the 
docks, Zoe finally stopped in her tracks. She pointed down a pier where a bunch of homeless 
guys were huddled together in blankets, wai ting for the soup kitchen to open for lunch. 
"He will be down there somewhere," Zoe sa id. "He never travels very far from the 
water. He likes to sun himself during the day." 
"How do I know which one is him?" 
"Sneak up," she said. "Act homeless. You will know him. He will smell… different." 
"Great." I didn't want to ask for particulars. "And once I find him?" 
"Grab him," she said. "And hold on. He will try anything to get rid of thee. Whatever he 
does, do not let go. Force him to tell thee about the monster." 
"We've got your back," Thalia said. She pick ed something off the back of my shirt—a 
big clump of fuzz that came from who-know s-where. "Eww. On second thought… I don't 
want your back. But we'll be rooting for you." 
Grover gave me a big thumbs-up. 
I grumbled how nice it was to have super- powerful friends. Then I headed toward the 
dock. 
I pulled my hat down and stumbled like I wa s about to pass out, which wasn't hard 
considering how tired I was. I passed our homeless friend from the Embarcadero, who was 
still trying to warn the other guys about the metal angels from Mars. 
He didn't smell good, but he didn't smell… different. I kept walking. A couple of grimy dudes with plastic grocery bags for hats checked me out as I came 
close. 
"Beat it, kid!" one of them muttered. 
I moved away. They smelled pretty bad, but  just regular old bad. Nothing unusual. 
There was a lady with a bunch of plastic fl amingos sticking out of a shopping cart. She 
glared at me like I was going to steal her birds. 
At the end of the pier, a guy who looked a bout a million years old was passed out in a 
patch of sunlight. He wore pajamas and a fuzzy bathrobe that probably used to be white. He 
was fat, with a white beard that had turned yello w, kind of like Santa Claus, if Santa had been 
rolled out of bed and dr agged through a landfill. 
And his smell? 
As I got closer, I froze. He smelled bad, all right—but ocean  bad. Like hot seaweed and 
dead fish and brine. If the ocean had an ugly side… this guy was it.  I tried not to gag as I sat down near him like I was tired. Santa opened one eye 
suspiciously. I could feel him staring at me , but I didn't look. I muttered something about 
stupid school and stupid parents, fi guring that might sound reasonable. 
Santa Claus went back to sleep. 
I tensed. I knew this was going to look strange. I didn't know how the other homeless 
people would react. But I jumped Santa Claus. 
"Ahhhhhl" he screamed. I meant to grab him, but  he seemed to grab me instead. It was 
as if he'd never been asleep at all. He certa inly didn't act like a weak old man. He had a grip 
like steel. "Help me!" he screamed as he squeezed me to death. 
"That's a crime!" one of the other homele ss guys yelled. "Kid rolling an old man like 
that!" 
I rolled, all right—straight down the pier unt il my head slammed into a post. I was 
dazed for a second, and Nereus's grip slackene d. He was making a break for it. Before he 
could, I regained my senses and tackled him from behind. 
"I don't have any money!" He tried to get up and run, but I locked my arms around his 
chest. His rotten fish smell was awful, but I held on. 
"I don't want money," I said as he fought. "I'm a half-blood! I want information.'" 
That just made him struggle harder. "H eroes! Why do you always pick on me?" 
"Because you know everything!" He growled and tried to shake me off his bac k. It was like holding on to a roller coaster. 
He thrashed around, making it impossible for me to  keep on my feet, but I gritted my teeth 
and squeezed tighter. We staggered toward th e edge of the pier and I got an idea. 
"Oh, no!" I said. "Not the water!" 
The plan worked. Immediately, Nereus yell ed in triumph and jumped off the edge. 
Together, we plunged into San Francisco Bay. 
He must've been surprised when I tightened my grip, the ocean filling me with extra 
strength. But Nereus had a few tricks left, t oo. He changed shape until  I was holding a sleek 
black seal. 
I've heard people make jokes about trying to hold a greased pig, but I'm telling you, 
holding on to a seal in the wa ter is harder. Nereus plunged straight down, wriggling and 
thrashing and spiraling through the dark water. If I hadn't been Poseidon's son, there's no way 
I could've stayed with him. 
Nereus spun and expanded, turn ing into a killer whale, but I grabbed his dor sal fin as he 
burst out of the water.  A whole bunch of tourists went, "Whoa!" 
I managed to wave at the crowd. Yeah, we do this every day here in San Francisco . 
Nereus plunged into the water and turned into a slimy eel. I started to tie him into a knot 
until he realized what was going on and cha nged back to human form. "Why won't you 
drown?" he wailed, pummelm g me with his fists. 
"I'm Poseidon's son," I said. "Curse that upstart! I was here first!" 
Finally he collapsed on the edge of the boa t dock. Above us was one of those tourist 
piers lined with shops, like a mall on water. Nereus was heaving and gasping. I was feeling 
great. I could've gone on all day, but I didn't tell him that. I wanted him to feel like he'd put up 
a good fight. 
My friends ran down the steps from the pier. 
"You got him!" Zoe said. 
"You don't have to sound so amazed," I said. 
Nereus moaned. "Oh, wonderful. An audience for my humiliation! The normal deal, I 
suppose? You'll let me go if I answer your question?" 
"I've got more than one question," I said. 
"Only one question per capture! That's the rule." I looked at my friends. This wasn't good. I needed to find Artemis, and I needed to figure out what the 
doomsday creature was. I also needed to know if Annabeth was still alive, and how to rescue 
her. How could I ask that all in one question? 
A voice inside me was screaming Ask about Annabeth ! That's what I cared about most. 
But then I imagined what Annabeth might say. She would never fo rgive me if I saved 
her and didn't save Olympus. Zoe would want me  to ask about Artemis, but Chiron had told 
us the monster was even more important. 
I sighed. "All right, Nereus. Tell me where to fi nd this terrible monster that could bring 
an end to the gods. The one Artemis was hunting." 
The Old Man of the Sea smiled, showing off his mossy green teeth. "Oh, that's too easy," he said  evilly. "He's right there." 
Nereus pointed to the water at my feet.  "Where?" I said. 
"The deal is complete!" Nereus gloated. W ith a pop, he turned into a goldfish and did a 
backflip into the sea. 
"You tricked me!" I yelled. 
"Wait." Thalia's eyes widened. "What is that?" 
"MOOOOOOOO!" 
I looked down, and there was my friend the cow serpent, swimming next to the dock. 
She nudged my shoe and gave me the sad brown eyes. 
"Ah, Bessie," I said. "Not now." 
"Mooo!" Grover gasped. "He says his name isn't Bessie." "You can understand her… er, him?" Grover nodded. "It's a very old form of animal speech. But he says his name is the 
Ophiotaurus." 
"The Ophi-what?" "It means serpent bull in Greek," Thalia  said. "But what's it doing here?" 
"Moooooooo!" "He says Percy is his protector," Grover announced. "And he's running from the bad people. He says they are close." 
I was wondering how you got all that out of a single moooooo. 
"Wait," Zoe said, looking at  me. "You know this cow?" 
I was feeling impatient, but  I told them the story. 
Thalia shook her head in disbelief. "And you just forgot to mention this before?" 
"Well… yeah." It seemed silly, now that sh e said it, but things had been happening so 
fast. Bessie, the Ophiotaurus, seemed like a minor detail. 
"I am a fool," Zoe said suddenly. "I know this story!" 
"What story?"  "From the War of the Titans," she said. "My… my father told me this tale, thousands of 
years ago. This is the beast we are looking for." 
"Bessie?" I looked down at the bull serpent. "But… he's too cute. He couldn't destroy 
the world." 
"That is how we were wrong,"  Zoe said. "We've been an ticipating a huge dangerous 
monster, but the Ophiotaurus does not bring down the gods that way. He must be sacrificed." 
"MMMM," Bessie lowed. 
"I don't think he likes the S-word," Grover said. 
I patted Bessie on the head, trying to calm him down. He let me scratch his ear, but he 
was trembling. 
"How could anyone hurt him?" I said. "He's harmless." 
Zoe nodded. "But there is power in killing innocence. 
Terrible power. The Fates orda ined a prophecy eons  ago, when this creature was born. 
They said that whoever killed th e Ophiotaurus and sacrificed its en trails to fire would have the 
power to destroy the gods." 
"MMMMMM!" 
"Um," Grover said. "Maybe we could avoid talking about entrails , too." 
Thalia stared at the cow serpent with wonde r. "The power to destroy the gods… how? I 
mean, what would happen?" 
"No one knows," Zoe said. "The  first time, during the Titan war, the Ophiotaurus was in 
fact slain by a giant ally of the Titans, but thy father, Zeus, sent an eagle to snatch the entrails 
away before they could be tossed into the fire . It was a close call. No w, after three thousand 
years, the Ophiotaurus is reborn." 
Thalia sat down on the dock. She stretched out her hand. Bessie we nt right to her. 
Thalia placed her hand on his head. Bessie shivered. 
Thalia's expression bothered me. She almost looked… hungry. 
"We have to protect him," I told her. "If Luke gets hold of him—" 
"Luke wouldn't hesitate," Thalia muttered. "The power to overthrow Olympus. That's… 
that's huge." 
"Yes, it is, my dear," said a man's voice in  a heavy French accent. "And it is a power 
you shall unleash." 
The Ophiotaurus made a whimpering sound and submerged.  I looked up. We'd been so busy talking, we'd allowed ourselves to be ambushed. 
Standing behind us, his two-color eyes gleaming wickedly, was Dr. Thorn, the 
manticore himself. 
"This is just pairrr-fec t," the manticore gloated. 
He was wearing a ratty black trench coat  over his Westover Hall uniform, which was 
torn and stained. His military haircut had grown out spiky and greasy. He hadn't shaved 
recently, so his face was covered in  silver stubble. Basically he didn't look much better than 
the guys down at the soup kitchen. 
"Long ago, the gods banished me to Persia," the manticore said. "I was forced to 
scrounge for food on the edges of the world, hiding in forest s, devouring insignificant human 
farmers for my meals. I never got to fight any great heroes. I was not feared and admired in 
the old stories! But now that will change. The Titans shall honor me, and I shall feast on the 
flesh of half-bloods!" 
On either side of him stood two armed securi ty guys, some of the mo rtal mercenaries I'd 
seen in D.C. Two more stood on the next boat dock  over, just in case we  tried to escape that 
way. There were tourists all around—walking down  the waterfront, shopping at the pier above 
us—but I knew that wouldn't stop the manticore from acting. 
"Where… where are the skeletons?" I asked the manticore. 
He sneered. "I do not need those foolish undead ! The General thinks I am worthless? He 
will change his mind when I defeat you myself!" 
I needed time to think. I had to save Bessie.  I could dive into th e sea, but how could I 
make a quick getaway with a five-hundred-pound  cow serpent? And what about my friends? 
"We beat you once before," I said. "Ha! You could barely fight me with a goddess on your side. And, alas… that goddess 
is preoccupied at the moment. There will be no help for you now." 
Zoe notched an arrow and aimed it straight at the manticore's head. The guards on either 
side of us raised their guns. 
"Wait!" I said. "Zoe, don't!" 
The manticore smiled. "The boy is right, Zoe Nightshade. Put away your bow. It would 
be a shame to kill you before you witnessed Thalia's great victory." 
"What are you talking about?" Thalia grow led. She had her shield and spear ready. 
"Surely it is clear," the manticore said. "This is your moment . This is why Lord Kronos 
brought you back to life. You will sacrifice the Ophiotaurus. You will bring its entrails to the  sacred fire on the mountain. You will gain unlimited power. And for your  sixteenth birthday, 
you will overthrow Olympus." 
No one spoke. It made terrible sense. Th alia was only two days away from turning 
sixteen. She was a child of the Big Three. And he re was a choice, a terrible choice that could 
mean the end of the gods. It was just like the prophecy said. I wasn't sure if I felt relieved, 
horrified, or disappointed. I wasn't the prophecy  kid after all. Doomsday was happening right 
now. 
I waited for Thalia to tell the manticore off, but she hesitated. She looked completely 
stunned. 
"You know it is the right choice, " the manticore told her. "Y our friend Luke recognized 
it. You shall be reunited with him. You shall rule  this world together under the auspices of the 
Titans. Your father abandoned you, Thalia. He cares nothing for you. And now you shall gain 
power over him. Crush the Olympians underfoot, as they deserve. Call the beast! It will come 
to you. Use your spear." 
"Thalia," I said, "snap out of it!" 
She looked at me the same way she had th e morning she woke up on Half-Blood Hill, 
dazed and uncertain. It was almost like she didn't know me. "I… I don't—" 
"Your father helped you," I said. "He sent the metal angels. He turned you into a tree to 
preserve you." 
Her hand tightened on the shaft of her spear. I looked at Grover desperately. Thank the gods , he understood what I needed. He raised 
his pipes to his mouth a nd played a quick riff. 
The manticore yelled, "Stop him!" 
The guards had been targeting Zoe, and before  they could figure ou t that the kid with 
the pipes was the bigger problem, the wooden planks  at their feet sprout ed new branches and 
tangled their legs. Zoe let loos e two quick arrows that explode d at their feet in clouds of 
sulfurous yellow smoke. Fart arrows! 
The guards started coughing. The manticore s hot spines in our direction, but they 
ricocheted off my lion's coat. 
"Grover," I said, "tell Bessie to  dive deep and stay down!" 
"Moooooo!" Grover translated. I could only hope that Bessie got the message. 
"The cow…" Thalia muttered, still in a daze. 
"Come on!" I pulled her along as we ran up the stairs to the shopping center on the pier. 
We dashed around the corner of the nearest st ore. I heard the manticore shouting at his 
minions, "Get them!" Tourists screamed as  the guards shot blindly into the air.  We scrambled to the end of the pier. We hid behind a little kiosk filled with souvenir 
crystals—wind chimes and dream catchers and stu ff like that, glittering in the sunlight. There 
was a water fountain next to us. Down below,  a bunch of sea lions were sunning themselves 
on the rocks. The whole of San Francisco Bay spread out before  us: the Golden Gate Bridge, 
Alcatraz Island, and the green hills and fog beyond that to the north. A picture-perfect 
moment, except for the fact that we were a bout to die and the world was going to end. 
"Go over the side!" Zoe told me. "You can es cape in the sea, Percy. Call on thy father 
for help. Maybe you can save the Ophiotaurus." 
She was right, but I couldn't do it. 
"I won't leave you guys," I sa id. "We fight together." 
"You have to get word to camp!" Grover sa id. "At least let them know what's going 
on!" 
Then I noticed the crystals making rainbow s in the sunlight. There was a drinking 
fountain next to me… 
"Get word to camp," I muttered. "Good idea." I uncapped Riptide and slashed off the top of the water fountain. Wa ter burst out of the 
busted pipe and sprayed all over us. 
Thalia gasped as the water hit her. The fog seemed to clear from her eyes. "Are you 
crazy?" she asked. 
But Grover understood. He was already fishing around in hi s pockets for a coin. He 
threw a golden drachma into the rainbows creat ed by the mist and yelled, "O goddess, accept 
my offering!" 
The mist rippled. "Camp Half-Blood!" I said. 
And there, shimmering in the Mist right next to us, was the last person I wanted to see: 
Mr. D, wearing his leopard-skin jogging su it and rummaging through the refrigerator. 
He looked up lazily. "Do you mind?" 
"Where's Chiron!" I shouted. 
"How rude." Mr. D took a swig from a jug of  grape juice. "Is that how you say hello?" 
"Hello," I amended. "We're about  to die! Where's Chiron?" 
Mr. D considered that. I wanted to scream at him to hurry up, but I knew that wouldn't 
work. Behind us, footsteps and shouting—the  manticore's troops were closing in.  "About to die," Mr. D mused. "How exciting. I'm afraid Chiron isn't here. Would you 
like me to take a message?" 
I looked at my friends. "We're dead." 
Thalia gripped her spear. She looked like her old angry self again. "Then we'll die 
fighting." 
"How noble," Mr. D said, stifling a yawn. "So what is the problem, exactly?" 
I didn't see that it would make any differen ce, but I told him about the Ophiotaurus. 
"Mmm." He studied the contents of the fridge. "So that's it. I see." 
"You don't even care!" I screamed. "Y ou'd just as soon watch us die!" 
"Let's see. I think I'm in the mood for pizza tonight." I wanted to slash through the rainbow a nd disconnect, but I didn't have time. The 
manticore screamed, "There!" And we were surrounded. Two of the guards stood behind him. 
The other two appeared on the roofs of the pier  shops above us. The manticore threw off his 
coat and transformed into his true self, his li on claws extended and his spiky tail bristling with 
poison barbs. 
"Excellent," he said. He glanced at the apparition in the mist  and snorted. "Alone, 
without any real help. Wonderful." 
"You could ask for help," Mr. D murmured to me, as  if this were an amusing thought. 
"You could say please." 
When wild boars fly, I thought . There was no way I was going to die begging a slob like 
Mr. D, just so he could laugh as we all got gunned down. 
Zoe readied her arrows. Grover lifted his pipes. Thalia raised  her shield, and I noticed a 
tear running down her cheek. Suddenly it occurred  to me: this had happened to her before. 
She had been cornered on Half-Blood Hill. She' d willingly given her life for her friends. But 
this time, she couldn't save us. 
How could I let that happen to her? 
"Please, Mr. D," I muttered. "Help." Of course, nothing happened. 
The manticore grinned. "Spare the daughter of  Zeus. She will join us soon enough. Kill 
the others." 
The men raised their guns, and somethi ng strange happened. You know how you feel 
when all the blood rushes to your head, like if you hang upside down and turn right-side up  too quickly? There was a rush like that all around me, and a sound like a huge sigh. The 
sunlight tinged with purple. I smelled grapes and something more sour—wine. 
SNAP!  
It was the sound of many minds breaking at  the same time. The sound of madness. One 
guard put his pistol between his teeth like it was a bone and ran around on all fours. Two 
others dropped their guns and started waltzing with each other. The fourth began doing what 
looked like an Irish clogging da nce. It would have been funny if it hadn't been so terrifying. 
"No!" screamed the manticore. "I will deal with you myself!" 
His tail bristled, but the pl anks under his paws erupted into grape vines, which 
immediately began wrapping around the monster's body, sprouting new leaves and clusters of 
green baby grapes that ripened in seconds as the manticore shrieked, until he was engulfed in 
a huge mass of vines, leaves, and full clusters  of purple grapes. Finally the grapes stopped 
shivering, and I had a feeling that somewhere inside there, the manticore was no more. 
"Well," said Dionysus, closing his refrigerator. "That was fun." 
I stared at him, horrified. "How could you… How did you—" "Such gratitude," he muttered. "The mortals wi ll come out of it. Too much explaining to 
do if I made their conditi on permanent. I hate writing reports to Father." 
He stared resentfully at Thalia. "I hope you learned your lesson, gi rl. It isn't easy to 
resist power, is it?" 
Thalia blushed as if she were ashamed. 
"Mr. D," Grover said in amazement. "You… you saved us. 
"Mmm. Don't make me regret it, satyr. No w get going, Percy Jackson. I've bought you a 
few hours at most." 
"The Ophiotaurus," I said. "Can you get it to camp?" 
Mr. D sniffed. "I do not transport livestock. That's your problem." 
"But where do we go?" Dionysus looked at Zoe. "Oh, I think the huntress knows. You must enter at sunset 
today, you know, or all is lost. Now good-bye. My pizza is waiting." 
"Mr. D," I said. 
He raised his eyebrow. 
"You called me by my right name," I said. "You called me Percy Jackson."  "I most certainly did not, Peter Johnson. Now off with you!" 
He waved his hand, and his image disappeared in the mist. 
All around us, the manticore's minions were s till acting completely nuts. One of them 
had found our friend the homeless guy, and they were having a serious conversation about 
metal angels from Mars. Several other guards were harassing the tourists, making animal 
noises and trying to steal their shoes. 
I looked at Zoe. "What did he mean… 'You know where to go'?" Her face was the color of the fog. She pointed  across the bay, past the Golden Gate. In 
the distance, a single mountain rose up above the cloud layer. 
"The garden of my sisters," she said. "I must go home." 
    SIXTEEN  
WE MEET THE DRAGON OF ETERNAL BAD BREATH  
"We will never make it," Zoe said. "We are moving too slow. But we cannot leave the 
Ophiotaurus." 
"Mooo," Bessie said. He swam next to me as we jogged along the waterfront. We'd left 
the shopping center pier far behind. We were h eading toward the Golden Gate Bridge, but it 
was a lot farther than I'd realized. Th e sun was already dipping in the west. 
"I don't get it," I said. "Why do we have to get there at sunset?" 
"The Hesperides are the nymphs of the s unset," Zoe said. "We can only enter their 
garden as day changes to night." 
"What happens if we miss it?" "Tomorrow is winter solstice. If we miss sunset tonight, we would have to wait until 
tomorrow evening. And by then, the Olympian Council will be over. We must free Lady 
Artemis tonight." 
Or Annabeth will be dead, I thought, but I didn't say that. 
"We need a car," Thalia said. "But what about Bessie?" I asked. Grover stopped in his tracks. "I've got an id ea! The Ophiotaurus can appear in different 
bodies of water, right?" 
"Well, yeah," I said. "I mean, he was in  Long Island Sound. Then he just popped into 
the water at Hoover Dam. And now he's here." 
"So maybe we could coax him back to L ong Island Sound," Grover said. "Then Chiron 
could help us get him to Olympus." 
"But he was following me" I said. "If I'm not there, would he know where he's going?" 
"Moo," Bessie said forlornly. "I… I can show him," Grover said. "I'll go with him." 
I stared at him. Grover was no fan of the wate r. He'd almost drowned last summer in the 
Sea of Monsters, and he couldn't sw im very well with his goat hooves. 
"I'm the only one who can talk to him," Grover said. "It makes sense."  He bent down and said something in Be ssie's ear. Bessie shivered, then made a 
contented, lowing sound. 
"The blessing of the Wild," Grover said. "T hat should help with safe passage. Percy, 
pray to your dad, too. See if he will grant us safe passage through the seas." 
I didn't understand how they could possibly sw im back to Long Island from California. 
Then again, monsters didn't travel the same way as humans. I'd seen plenty evidence of that. 
I tried to concentrat e on the waves, the smell of the ocean, the sound of the tide. 
"Dad," I said. "Help us. Get the Ophiotaurus and Grover safely to camp. Protect them at 
sea." 
"A prayer like that needs a sacrif ice," Thalia said. "Something big." 
I thought for a second. Then I took off my coat. 
"Percy," Grover said. "Are you sure? That lion skin… that's really helpful. Hercules 
used it!" 
As soon as he said that, I realized something. 
I glanced at Zoe, who was watc hing me carefully. I realized I did know who Zoe's hero 
had been—the one who'd ruined her life, gotten her kicked out of her family, and never even 
mentioned how she'd helped him: Hercules, a hero I'd admired all my life. 
"If I'm going to survive," I said, "it won't be because I've got a lion-skin cloak. I'm not 
Hercules." 
I threw the coat into the bay. It turned back into a golden lion ski n, flashing in the light. 
Then, as it began to sink beneath the waves, it s eemed to dissolve into sunlight on the water. 
The sea breeze picked up. 
Grover took a deep breath. "Well, no time to lose." 
He jumped in the water and immediately bega n to sink. Bessie glid ed next to him and 
let Grover take hold of his neck. 
"Be careful," I told them. "We will," Grover said. "Okay, um… Bessie? We're going to Long Island. It's east. 
Over that way." 
"Moooo?" Bessie said. "Yes," Grover answered. "Long Island. It's this island. And… it's long. Oh, let's just 
start."  "Mooo!" 
Bessie lurched forward. He started to subm erge and Grover said, "I can't breathe 
underwater! Just thought I'd mention—" Glub!  
Under they went, and I hoped my father's prot ection would extend to  little things, like 
breathing. 
"Well, that is one problem addressed," Zoe said. "But how can we get to my sisters' 
garden?" 
"Thalia's right," I said. "We need a car. But there's nobody to help us here. Unless we, 
uh, borrowed one." 
I didn't like that option. I mean, sure this wa s a life-or-death situa tion, but still, it was 
stealing, and it was bound to get us noticed. 
"Wait," Thalia said. She started ri fling through her backpack. "There is somebody in 
San Francisco who can help us. I've got the address here somewhere." 
"Who?" I asked. Thalia pulled out a crumpled piece of not ebook paper and held it up. "Professor Chase. 
Annabeth's dad." 
After hearing Annabeth gripe about her dad for two years, I was expecting him to have 
devil horns and fangs. I was not  expecting him to be wearing an old-fashioned aviator's cap 
and goggles. He looked so weird, with his eyes bugging out through the glasses, that we all 
took a step back on the front porch. 
"Hello," he said in a friendly voice,  "Are you delivering my airplanes?" 
Thalia, Zoe, and I looked at each other warily. 
"Um, no, sir," I said. 
"Drat," he said. "I need three more Sopwith Camels." 
"Right," I said, though I had no clue what he was talking about. "We're friends of 
Annabeth." 
"Annabeth?" He straightened as if I'd just given him an electric shock. "Is she all right? 
Has something happened?" 
None of us answered, but our  faces must've told him that something was very wrong. 
He took off his cap and goggles. He had sandy-colored hair like Annabeth and intense brown 
eyes. He was handsome, I guess, for an older gu y, but it looked like he hadn't shaved in a  couple of days, and his shirt was buttoned wrong, so one side  of his collar stuck up higher 
than the other side. 
"You'd better come in," he said. 
  It didn't look like a house they'd just move d into. There were LEGO robots on the stairs 
and two cats sleeping on the sofa in the living room. The coffee table was stacked with 
magazines, and a little kid's winter coat was spread on the floor. The whole house smelled like 
fresh-baked chocolate-chip cook ies. There was jazz music coming from the kitchen. It seemed 
like a messy, happy kind of home—the kind of  place that had been lived in forever. 
"Dad!" a little boy screamed. "H e's taking apart my robots!" 
"Bobby," Dr. Chase called absently, "don' t take apart your brother's robots." 
"I'm Bobby," the little boy pr otested. "He's Matthew!" 
"Matthew," Dr. Chase called, "don't ta ke apart your brother's robots!" 
"Okay, Dad!" 
Dr. Chase turned to us. "We'll go upstairs to my study. This way." "Honey?" a woman called. Annabeth's stepmom appeared in the living room, wiping her 
hands on a dish towel. She was a pretty Asian woman with red highlight ed hair tied in a bun. 
"Who are our guests?" she asked. "Oh," Dr. Chase said. "This is…" 
He stared at us blankly. 
"Frederick," she chided. "You for got to ask them their names?" 
We introduced ourselves a little  uneasily, but Mrs. Chase seemed really nice. She asked 
if we were hungry. We admitted we were, and she told us she'd bring us some cookies and 
sandwiches and sodas. 
"Dear," Dr. Chase said. "T hey came about Annabeth." 
I half expected Mrs. Chase to turn into  a raving lunatic at the mention of her 
stepdaughter, but she just pur sed her lips and looked concerne d. "All right. Go on up to the 
study and I'll bring you some food." She smiled at  me. "Nice meeting you, Percy. I've heard a 
lot about you." 
Upstairs, we walked into Dr. Chase's study and I said, "Whoa!"  The room was wall-to-wall books, but what really caught my attention were the war 
toys. There was a huge table with miniature ta nks and soldiers fighting along a blue painted 
river, with hills and fake trees and stuff. Old-fashioned biplanes hung on strings from the 
ceiling, tilted at crazy angles like th ey were in the middle of a dogfight. 
Dr. Chase smiled. "Yes. The Third Battle of Ypres. I'm writing a paper, you see, on the 
use of Sopwith Camels to strafe enemy lines. I believe they played a much greater role than 
they've been given credit for." 
He plucked a biplane from its st ring and swept it across the battlefield, making airplane 
engine noises as he knocked down little German soldiers. 
"Oh, right," I said. I knew Annabeth's dad was a professor of military history. She'd 
never mentioned he played with toy soldiers. 
Zoe came over and studied the battlefield. "The German lines were farther from the 
river." 
Dr. Chase stared at her. "How do you know that?" 
"I was there," she said matter-of-factly. "Art emis wanted to show  us how horrible war 
was, the way mortal men fight each other. A nd how foolish, too. The battle was a complete 
waste." 
Dr. Chase opened his mouth in shock. "You—" 
"She's a Hunter, sir," Tha lia said. "But that's not why we're here. We need—" 
"You saw the Sopwith Camels?" Dr. Chase said. "How many were there? What 
formations did they fly?" 
"Sir," Thalia broke in agai n. "Annabeth is in danger." 
That got his attention. He set the biplane down. "Of course," he said. "Tell me everything." It wasn't easy, but we tried. Meanwhile, the afternoon light was fadi ng outside. We were 
running out of time. 
When we'd finished, Dr. Chase collapsed in his leather recliner. He laced his hands. 
"My poor brave Annabeth. We must hurry." 
"Sir, we need transportation to Mount Tamalpais," Zoe said. "And we need it 
immediately." 
"I'll drive you. Hmm. it would be faster to fly in my Camel, but it only seats two." 
"Whoa, you have an actual biplane?" I said.  "Down at Crissy Field," Dr. Chase said proud ly. "That's the reason I had to move here. 
My sponsor is a private collector  with some of the finest World War I relics in the world. He 
let me restore the Sopwith Camel—" 
"Sir," Thalia said. "Just a car  would be great. And it might be better if we went without 
you. It's too dangerous." . 
Dr. Chase frowned uncomfortably. "Now wait a minute, young lady. Annabeth is my 
daughter. Dangerous or not, I… I can't just—" 
"Snacks," Mrs. Chase announced. She pushed through the door with a tray full of 
peanut-butter-and-jelly  sandwiches and Cokes and cookies fresh out of the oven, the 
chocolate chips still gooey. Thalia and I inhaled a few cookies while Zoe said, "I can drive, 
sir. I'm not as young as I look. I pr omise not to destroy your car." 
Mrs. Chase knit her eyebrows. "What's this about?" 
"Annabeth is in danger," Dr. Chase said. "On Mount Tam. I would drive them, but… 
apparently it's no place for mortals." 
It sounded like it was really hard for him to get that last part out. 
I waited for Mrs. Chase to say no. I mean, what mortal parent would allow three 
underage teenagers to borrow their car? To my surprise, Mrs. Chase nodded. "Then they'd 
better get going." 
"Right!" Dr. Chase jumped up and star ted patting his pockets. "My keys…" 
His wife sighed. "Frederick, honestly. You'd lo se your head if it weren't wrapped inside 
your aviator hat. The keys are ha nging on the peg by the front door." 
"Right!" Dr. Chase said. 
Zoe grabbed a sandwich. "Thank you both. We should go. Now"  
We hustled out the door and down the st airs, the Chases right behind us. 
"Percy," Mrs. Chase called as I was leavi ng, "tell Annabeth… Tell her she still has a 
home here, will you? Remind her of that." 
I took one last look at the messy living room , Annabeth's half brothers spilling LEGOs 
and arguing, the smell of cookies filli ng the air. Not a ba d place, I thought. 
"I'll tell her," I promised. 
We ran out to the ye llow VW convertible parked in the driveway. The sun was going 
down. I figured we had less than an hour to save Annabeth. 
   "Can't this thing go any faster?" Thalia dema nded. Zoe glared at her. "I cannot control 
traffic." 
"You both sound like my mother," I sai d. "Shut up!" they said in unison. 
Zoe weaved in and out of traffic on the Golden Gate Bridge. The sun was sinking on the 
horizon when we finally got into Marin County and exited the highway. 
The roads were insanely narrow, winding through forests and up the sides of hills and 
around the edges of steep ravines.  Zoe didn't slow down at all. 
"Why does everything smell like cough drops?" I asked. 
"Eucalyptus." Zoe pointed to  the huge trees all around us. 
"The stuff koala bears eat?" 
"And monsters," she said. "They love chewing the leaves. Es pecially dragons." 
"Dragons chew eucalyptus leaves?" 
"Believe me," Zoe said, "if you had dragon breath, you would chew eucalyptus too." 
I didn't question her, but I did keep my eyes peeled more closely as we drove. Ahead of 
us loomed Mount Tamalpais. I guess, in term s of mountains, it was a small one, but it looked 
plenty huge as we were driving toward it. 
"So that's the Mountain of Despair?" I asked. "Yes," Zoe said tightly. 
"Why do they call it that?" 
She was silent for almost a mile before an swering. "After the war between the Titans 
and the gods, many of the Titans were punished and imprisoned. Kronos was sliced to pieces 
and thrown into Tartarus. Kronos's right-hand man, the general of his forces, was imprisoned 
up there, on the summit, just beyond the Garden of the Hesperides." 
"The General," I said. Clouds seemed to be swirling around its peak, as though the 
mountain was drawing them in, spinning them  like a top. "What's going on up there? A 
storm?" 
Zoe didn't answer. I got the feeing she knew exactly what the clouds meant, and she 
didn't like it. 
"We have to concentrate," Thalia said . "The Mist is really strong here." 
"The magical kind or the natural kind?" I asked. 
"Both."  The gray clouds swirled even thicker over th e mountain, and we kept driving straight 
toward them. We were out of the forest now, into wide open spaces of cliffs and grass and 
rocks and fog. 
I happened to glance down at the ocean as  we passed a scenic curve, and I saw 
something that made me jump out of my seat. 
"Look!" But we turned a corner and the ocean disappeared behind the hills. 
"What?" Thalia asked. 
"A big white ship," I said. "Docked near the beach. It looked lik e a cruise ship." 
Her eyes widened. "Luke's ship?" 
I wanted to say I wasn't sure. It might be a coincidence. But I knew better. The Princess 
Andromeda, Luke's demon cruise ship, was docked at th at beach. That's why he'd sent his ship 
all the way down to the Panama Canal. It was the only way to sail it from the East Coast to 
California. 
"We will have company, then," Zo e said grimly. "Kronos's army." 
I was about to answer, when suddenly the hairs on the back of my neck stood up. Thalia 
shouted, "Stop the car. NOW!" 
Zoe must've sensed something was wrong, becau se she slammed on the brakes without 
question. The yellow VW spun twice before comi ng to a stop at the edge of the cliff. 
"Out!" Thalia opened the door and pushed me  hard. We both rolled onto the pavement. 
The next second: BOOOM ! 
Lightning flashed, and Dr. Chase's Volkswagen erupted like a canary-yellow grenade. I 
probably would've been killed by shrapnel except for Thalia's shield, which appeared over 
me. I heard a sound like metal ram, and when  I opened my eyes, we were surrounded by 
wreckage. Part of the VW's fender had impa led itself in the street. The smoking hood was 
spinning in circles. Pieces of yellow metal were strewn across the road. 
I swallowed the taste of smoke out of my mouth, and looked at Thalia. "You saved my 
life." 
"One shall perish by a parent's hand"  she muttered. "Curse him.  He would destroy me? 
Me?" 
It took me a second to rea lize she was talking about he r dad. "Oh, hey, that couldn't 
have been Zeus's lightning bolt. No way." 
"Whose, then?" Thalia demanded. 
"I don't know. Zoe said Kronos's name. Maybe he—"  Thalia shook her head, looking angr y and stunned. "No. That wasn't it." 
"Wait," I said. "Where's Zoe? Zoe!" 
We both got up and ran around the blaste d VW. Nothing inside. Nothing either 
direction down the road. I looked down the cliff. No sign of her. 
"Zoe!" I shouted. Then she was standing right next to me, pulling me by my arm. "S ilence, fool! Do you 
want to wake Ladon?" 
"You mean we're here?" 
"Very close," she said. "Follow me." 
Sheets of fog were drifting right across the road. Zoe stepped into  one of them, and 
when the fog passed, she was no longer there. Thalia and I looked at each other. 
"Concentrate on Zoe," Thalia advised. "We are following her. Go straight into the fog 
and keep that in mind." 
"Wait, Thalia. About what happened back on the pier… I mean, with the manticore and 
the sacrifice—" 
"I don't want to talk about it." 
"You wouldn't actually have… you know?" She hesitated. "I was just shocked. That's all." "Zeus didn't send that lighting bolt at the car. It was Kronos . He's trying to manipulate 
you, make you angry at your dad." 
She took a deep breath. "Percy, I know you're trying to make me feel better. Thanks. 
But come on. We need to go." 
She stepped into the fog, in to the Mist, and I followed. 
When the fog cleared, I was still on the side of the mountain, but the road was dirt. The 
grass was thicker. The sunset made a bloodred slash across the sea. The summit of the 
mountain seemed closer now, sw irling with storm clouds and ra w power. There was only one 
path to the top, directly in front of us. A nd it led through a lush meadow of shadows and 
flowers: the garden of twilight, just like I'd seen in my dream. 
If it hadn't been for the enormous dragon, the garden would've been the most beautiful 
place I'd ever seen. The grass shimmered with silvery evening light, and the flowers were 
such brilliant colors they almost glowed in th e dark. Stepping stones of  polished black marble  led around either side of a five-story-tall appl e tree, every bough glittering with golden apples, 
and I don't mean yellow  golden apples like in the grocery store. I mean real golden apples. I 
can't describe why they were so  appealing, but as soon as I smelled their fragrance, I knew 
that one bite would be the most delicious thing I'd ever tasted. 
"The apples of immortality," Thalia said. "Hera's wedding gift from Zeus." 
I wanted to step right up and pluck one, except for the dragon coiled around the tree. 
Now, I don't know what you think of when I say dragon. Whatever it is, it's not scary 
enough. The serpent's body was as th ick as a booster rocket, glinting with coppery scales. He 
had more heads than I could count, as if a hundred deadly pythons had been fused together. 
He appeared to be asleep. The heads lay curled in a big spaghe tti-like mound on the grass, all 
the eyes closed. 
Then the shadows in front of us began to move. There was a b eautiful, eerie singing, 
like voices from the bottom of a well. I reac hed for Riptide, but Zoe stopped my hand. 
Four figures shimmered into existence, f our young women who looke d very much like 
Zoe. They all wore white Greek chitons. Their skin was like caramel. Silky black hair 
tumbled loose around their shoulder s. It was strange, but I'd neve r realized how beautiful Zoe 
was until I saw her siblings, the Hesperides . They looked just like Zoe—gorgeous, and 
probably very dangerous. 
"Sisters," Zoe said. 
"We do not see any sister," one of the girls said coldly. "We see two half-bloods and a 
Hunter. All of whom  shall soon die." 
"You've got it wrong." I stepped fo rward. "Nobody is going to die." 
The girls studied me. They had eyes like vo lcanic rock, glassy and completely black. 
"Perseus Jackson," one of them said. "Yes," mused another. "I do not  see why he is a threat." 
"Who said I was a threat?" 
The first Hesperid glanced behind her, toward  the top of the mountain. "They fear thee. 
They are unhappy that this one has not yet killed thee." 
She pointed at Thalia. 
"Tempting sometimes," Thalia admitte d. "But no, thanks. He's my friend." 
"There are no friends here, da ughter of Zeus," the girl sai d. "Only enemies. Go back." 
"Not without Annabeth," Thalia said.  "And Artemis," Zoe said. "We mu st approach the mountain." 
"You know he will kill thee," the girl  said. "You are no match for him." 
"Artemis must be freed," Zo e insisted. "Let us pass." 
The girl shook her head. "You have no rights here anymore. We have only to raise our 
voices and Ladon will wake." 
"He will not hurt me," Zoe said. 
"No? And what about th y so-called friends?" 
Then Zoe did the last thing I expe cted. She shouted, "Ladon! Wake!" 
The dragon stirred, glittering like a mountain of pennies. The Hesperides yelped and 
scattered. The lead girl said to Zoe, "Are you mad?" 
"You never had any courage, sister,"  Zoe said. "That is thy problem." 
The dragon Ladon was writhing now, a hundred heads whipping around, tongues 
flickering and tasting the air. Zoe to ok a step forward, her arms raised. 
"Zoe, don't," Thalia said. "You're not a Hesperid anymore. He'll kill you." 
"Ladon is trained to protect the tree," Zoe sa id. "Skirt around the edges of the garden. 
Go up the mountain. As long as I am a bi gger threat, he should ignore thee." 
"Should," I said. "Not exactly reassuring." 
"It is the only way," she said. "Even the three of us together cannot fight him." 
Ladon opened his mouths. The sound of a hundred heads hissing at once sent a shiver 
down my back, and that was before his breath hit me. The smell was like acid. It made my 
eyes burn, my skin crawl, and my hair stan d on end. I remembered the time a rat had died 
inside our apartment wall in New York in the middle of the summer. This stench was like 
that, except a hundred times stronger, and mixe d with the smell of chewed eucalyptus. I 
promised myself righ t then that I would never  ask a school nurse for another cough drop. 
I wanted to draw my sword. But then I reme mbered my dream of Zoe and Hercules, and 
how Hercules had failed in a head-on assa ult. I decided to trust Zoe's judgment. 
Thalia went left. I went  right. Zoe walked straight toward the monster. 
"It's me, my little dragon," Zoe said. "Zoe has come back." 
Ladon shifted forward, then back. Some of the mouths closed. Some kept hissing. 
Dragon confusion. Meanwhile, the Hesperides shimmered and turn ed into shadows. The voice 
of the eldest whispered, "Fool."  "I used to feed th ee by hand," Zoe continued, speakin g in a soothing voice as she 
stepped toward the golden tree. "Do you still like lamb's meat?" 
The dragon's eyes glinted. 
Thalia and I were about halfway around the garden. Ahead, I could see a single rocky 
trail leading up to the black p eak of the mountain. The storm swirled above it, spinning on the 
summit like it was the axis for the whole world. 
We'd almost made it out of the meadow when  something went wrong. I felt the dragon's 
mood shift. Maybe 
Zoe got too close. Maybe the dragon realized he  was hungry. Whatever the reason, he 
lunged at Zoe. 
Two thousand years of training kept her alive. She dodged on e set of slashing fangs and 
tumbled under another, weaving through the dra gon's heads as she ran in our direction, 
gagging from the monster's horrible breath. 
I drew Riptide to help. 
"No!" Zoe panted. "Run!" 
The dragon snapped at her side, and Zoe cr ied out. Thalia uncovered Aegis, and the 
dragon hissed. In his moment of  indecision, Zoe sprinted past  us up the mountain, and we 
followed. 
The dragon didn't try to pursue. He hisse d and stomped the ground, but I guess he was 
well trained to guard that tree. He wasn't going to be lured off even by the tasty prospect of 
eating some heroes. 
We ran up the mountain as the Hesperides resumed their song in the shadows behind us. 
The music didn't sound so beautiful to me now—more like the sound track for a funeral. 
At the top of mountain were ru ins, blocks of black granite and marble as big as houses. 
Broken columns. Statues of bronze that looked as though they'd been half melted. 
"The ruins of Mount Othrys," Thalia whispered in awe. 
"Yes," Zoe said. "It was not here before. This is bad." 
"What's Mount Othrys?" I asked, feeling like a fool as usual. 
"The mountain fortress of the Titans," Zoe sa id. "In the first war, Olympus and Othrys 
were the two rival capitals of the world. Ot hrys was—" She winced and held her side. 
"You're hurt," I said. "Let me see." 
"No! It is nothing. I was saying… in the fi rst war, Othrys was blasted to pieces."  "But… how is it here?" 
Thalia looked around cautiously as we picked  our way through the rubble, past blocks 
of marble and broken archways. "It moves in th e same way that Olympus moves. It always 
exists on the edges of civilization. But the fact that it is here, on this mountain, is not good." 
"Why?" 
"This is Atlas's mountain," Zoe said. "Whe re he holds—" She fr oze. Her voice was 
ragged with despair. "Where he used to hold up the sky." 
We had reached the summit. A few yards ahead of us, gray clouds swirled in a heavy 
vortex, making a funnel cloud that almost touche d the mountaintop, but instead rested on the 
shoulders of a twelve-yea r-old girl with auburn hair and a ta ttered silvery dre ss: Artemis, her 
legs bound to the rock with celestial bronze chains . This is what I had seen in my dream. It 
hadn't been a cavern roof that Artemis was forced to hold. It was the roof of the world. 
"My lady!" Zoe rushed forward, but Artemis sa id, "Stop! It is a trap. You must leave 
now." 
Her voice was strained. She was drenched in  sweat. I had never seen a goddess in pain 
before, but the weight of the sky was clearly too much for Artemis. 
Zoe was crying. She ran forward despite Arte mis's protests, and tugged at the chains. 
A booming voice spoke behind us: "Ah, how touching." 
We turned. The General was standing there in his brown silk suit. At his side were Luke 
and half a dozen dracaenae bearing the golde n sarcophagus of Kronos. Annabeth stood at 
Luke's side. She had her hands cuffed behind  her back, a gag in her mouth, and Luke was 
holding the point of his sword to her throat. 
I met her eyes, trying to ask her a thousand questions. There was just one message she 
was sending me, though: RUN . 
"Luke," Thalia snarled. "Let her go." 
Luke's smile was weak and pale. He looked ev en worse than he had three days ago in 
D.C. "That is the General's decision, Thalia. But it's good to see you again." 
Thalia spat at him. 
The General chuckled. "So much for old fr iends. And you, Zoe. It's been a long time. 
How is my little traitor? I will enjoy killing you." 
"Do not respond," Artemis groa ned. "Do not challenge him." 
"Wait a second," I said. "You're Atlas?"  The General glanced at me. "So, even the stupidest of heroes can finally figure 
something out. Yes, I am Atlas, the genera l of the Titans and terror of the gods. 
Congratulations. I will kill you presently, as soon  as I deal with this wretched girl." 
"You're not going to hurt Zoe" I said. "I won't let you." 
The General sneered. "You have no right to interfere, little hero. This is a family 
matter." I frowned. "A family matter?" 
"Yes," Zoe said bleakly. "Atlas is my father."  
  SEVENTEEN  
I PUT ON A FEW MILLION EXTRA POUNDS  
The horrible thing was: I coul d see the family resemblance. Atlas had the same regal 
expression as Zoe, the same cold proud look in his eyes that Zoe sometimes got when she was 
mad, though on him it looked a thousa nd times more evil. He was a ll the things I'd originally 
disliked about Zoe, with none of  the good I'd come to appreciate. 
"Let Artemis go," Zoe demanded. Atlas walked closer to the chained goddess. "Perhaps you'd lik e to take the sky for her, 
then? Be my guest." 
Zoe opened her mouth to speak, but Artemis said , "No! Do not offer, Zoe! I forbid you." 
Atlas smirked. He knelt next to Artemis and tried to touch her face, but the goddess bit 
at him, almost taking off his fingers. 
"Hoo-hoo," Atlas chuckled. "You see, daughter ? Lady Artemis likes her new job. I 
think I will have all the Olympians take tu rns carrying my burden, once Lord Kronos rules 
again, and this is the center of our palace. It will teach those w eaklings some humility." 
I looked at Annabeth. She was desperately trying to tell me something. She motioned 
her head toward Luke. But all 
I could do was stare at her.  I hadn't noticed before, but something about her had 
changed. Her blond hair was now streaked with gray. 
"From holding the sky," Thalia muttered, as if she'd read my mind. "The weight 
should've killed her." 
"I don't understand," I said. "Why can't Artemis just let go of the sky?" Atlas laughed. "How little you understand, young one. This is the point where the sky 
and the earth first met, where Ouranos and Gaia  first brought forth their mighty children, the 
Titans. The sky still yearns to embrace the ea rth. Someone must hold it at bay, or else it 
would crush down upon this place, instantly fl attening the mountain a nd everything within a 
hundred leagues. Once you have taken the burde n, there is no escape." Atlas smiled. "Unless 
someone else takes it from you." 
He approached us, studying Thalia and me. "So these are the best heroes of the age, eh? 
Not much of a challenge." 
"Fight us," I said. "And let's see."  "Have the gods taught you nothing? An immortal does not fight  a mere mortal directly. 
It is beneath our dignity. I w ill have Luke crush you instead." 
"So you're another coward," I said. 
Atlas's eyes glowed with hatred. With diffi culty, he turned his attention to Thalia. 
"As for you, daughter of Zeus, it seems Luke was wrong about you." 
"I wasn't wrong," Luke managed. He looked terribly weak, and he spoke every word as 
if it were painful. If I didn't hate his guts so  much, I almost would've felt sorry for Kim. 
"Thalia, you still can join  us. Call the Ophiotaurus. It will come to you. Look!" 
He waved his hand, and next to us a pool of water appeared: a pond ringed in black 
marble, big enough for the Ophiotaurus. I could im agine Bessie in that p ool. In fact, the more 
I thought about it, the more I was sure I could hear Bessie mooing. 
Don't think about him ! Suddenly Grover's voice was insi de my mind—the empathy link. 
I could feel his emotions. He was on the verge of panic. I'm losing Bessie. Block the thoughts ! 
I tried to make my mind go blank. I tried to th ink about basketball pl ayers, skateboards, 
the different kinds of candy in my  mom's shop. Anything but Bessie. 
"Thalia, call the Ophiotaurus, " Luke persisted. "And you will be more powerful than the 
gods." 
"Luke…" Her voice was full of pain. "What happened to you?" "Don't you remember all those times we talk ed? All those times we cursed the gods? 
Our fathers have done nothing for us. Th ey have no right to rule the world!" 
Thalia shook her head. "Free Annabeth. Let her go." 
"If you join me," Luke promised, "it can be  like old times. The three of us together. 
Fighting for a better world. Pleas e, Thalia, if you don't agree…" 
His voice faltered. "It's my last chance. He  will use the other way if you don't agree. 
Please." 
I didn't know what he meant, but the fear  in his voice sounded real enough. I believed 
that Luke was in danger. 
His life depended on Thalia's joining his cause. And I was afraid Thalia might believe it, 
too. 
"Do not, Thalia," Zoe warned. "We must fight them." 
Luke waved his hand again, and a fire appear ed. A bronze brazier, just like the one at 
camp. A sacrificial flame.  "Thalia," I said. "No." 
Behind Luke, the golden sarcophagus began to glow. As it did, I saw images in the mist 
all around us: black marble walls rising, the ruins becoming whole, a te rrible and beautiful 
palace rising around us, made of fear and shadow. 
"We will raise Mount Othrys right here," Luke  promised, in a voice so strained it was 
hardly his. "Once more, it will be stronger and greater than Olympus. Look, Thalia. We are 
not weak." 
He pointed toward the ocean, and my heart fell. Marching up the side of the mountain, 
from the beach where the Princess Andromeda  was docked, was a great army. Dracaenae and 
Laestrygonians, monsters and half-bloods, hell hounds, harpies, and other things I couldn't 
even name. The whole ship must've been emp tied, because there were hundreds, many more 
than I'd seen on board last summer. And they  were marching toward us. In a few minutes, 
they would be here. 
"This is only a taste of what is to come,"  Luke said. "Soon we will be ready to storm 
Camp Half-Blood. And after that, Olympus itself. All we need is your help." 
For a terrible moment, Thalia hesitated. She ga zed at Luke, her eyes full of pain, as if 
the only thing she wanted in the world was to believe him. Then she leveled her spear. "You 
aren't Luke. I don't know you anymore." 
"Yes, you do, Thalia," he pleaded. "P lease. Don't make me… Don't make him destroy 
you." 
There was no time. If that army got to the top of the hill, we would be overwhelmed. I 
met Annabeth's eyes again. She nodded. 
I looked at Thalia and Zoe, and I decided it wouldn't be the worst thing in the world to 
die fighting with friends like this. 
"Now," I said. 
Together, we charged. 
Thalia went straight for Luke. The power of  her shield was so great that his dragon-
women bodyguards fled in a panic, dropping the golden coffin and leaving him alone. But 
despite his sickly appearance, Luke was still quick with his sword. He snarled like a wild 
animal and counterattacked. When his sword, Backbiter, met Thalia's shield, a ball of 
lightning erupted between them, frying th e air with yellow tendrils of power. 
As for me, I did the stupidest thing in my life,  which is saying a lot. I attacked the Titan 
Lord Atlas. 
He laughed as I approached. A huge javelin ap peared in his hands. His silk suit melted 
into full Greek battle armor. "Go on, then!"  "Percy!" Zoe said. "Beware!" 
I knew what she was warning me about . Chiron had told me long ago: Immortals are 
constrained by ancient rules. But a hero c an go anywhere, challenge anyone, as long as he 
has the nerve. Once I attacked, however, Atlas was free to  attack back directly, with all his 
might. 
I swung my sword, and Atlas knocked me aside with the shaft of his javelin. I flew 
through the air and slammed into a black wall. It  wasn't Mist anymore. The palace was rising, 
brick by brick. It was becoming real. 
"Fool!" Atlas screamed gleefully, swatting aside one of Zoe's arrows. "Did you think, 
simply because you could challenge that petty war god, that you could stand up to me?" 
The mention of Ares sent a jo lt through me. I shook off my daze and charged again. If I 
could get to that pool of wate r, I could double my strength. 
The javelins point slashed toward me like a sc ythe. I raised Riptide, planning to cut off 
his weapon at the shaft, but my arm felt lik e lead. My sword suddenly weighed a ton. 
And I remembered Ares's warning, spoken on the beach in Los Angeles so long ago: 
When you need it most, your sword will fail you . 
Not now ! I pleaded. But it was no good. I tried to dodge, but the javelin caught me in 
the chest and sent me flying like a rag doll. I slammed into the ground, my head spinning. I 
looked up and found I was at the feet of Artemis,  still straining under th e weight of the sky. 
"Run, boy," she told me. "You must run!" 
Atlas was taking his time coming toward me. My sword was gone. It had skittered away 
over the edge of the cliff. It might reappe ar in my pocket—maybe in a few seconds—but it 
didn't matter. I'd be dead by then. Luke and Thalia were fighting like demons, lightning 
crackling around them. Annabeth was on the ground, desperately struggling to free her hands. 
"Die, little hero," Atlas said. 
He raised his javelin to impale me. 
"No!" Zoe yelled, and a volley of silver arrows  sprouted from the armpit chink in Atlas's 
armor. 
"ARGH!" He bellowed and turn ed toward his daughter. 
I reached down and felt Riptide back in my poc ket. I couldn't fight Atlas, even with a 
sword. And then a chill went down my bac k. I remembered the words of the prophecy: The 
Titan's curse must one withstand . I couldn't hope to beat Atlas. But there was someone else 
who might stand a chance. 
"The sky," I told the god dess. "Give it to me."  "No, boy," Artemis said. Her fore head was beaded with metall ic sweat, like quicksilver. 
"You don't know what you're asking. It will crush you!" 
"Annabeth took it!" 
"She barely survived. She had the spirit of a true huntress. You will not last so long." 
"I'll die anyway," I said. "Give me the weight of the sky!" 
I didn't wait for her answer. I took out Rip tide and slashed through her chains. Then I 
stepped next to her and braced myself on one knee—holding up my hands—and touched the 
cold, heavy clouds. For a moment, Artemis and I bor e the weight together. It was the heaviest 
thing I'd ever felt, as if I were being crushe d under a thousand trucks. I wanted to black out 
from the pain, but I breathed deeply. I can do this . 
Then Artemis slipped out from unde r the burden, and I held it alone. 
Afterward, I tried many times to expl ain what it felt like. I couldn't. 
Every muscle in my body turned to fire. My bon es felt like they we re melting. I wanted 
to scream, but I didn't have the strength to open my mouth. I bega n to sink, lower and lower to 
the ground, the sky's weight crushing me. 
Fight back ! Grover's voice said inside my head. Don't give up . 
I concentrated on breathing. If I could just keep the sky aloft a few more seconds. I 
thought about Bianca, who had gi ven her life so we could get here. If she could do that, I 
could hold the sky. 
My vision turned fuzzy. Everyt hing was tinged with red. I ca ught glimpses of the battle, 
but I wasn't sure if I was seeing clearly. There was Atlas in full battle armor, jabbing with his 
javelin, laughing insanely as he fought. And Arte mis, a blur of silver. She had two wicked 
hunting knives, each as long as her arm, and she slashed wildly at the Titan, dodging and 
leaping with unbelievable grace. She seemed to change form as she maneuvered. She was a tiger, a gazelle, a bear, a falcon. Or  perhaps that was just my feve red brain. Zoe shot arrows at 
her father, aiming for the chinks in his armor.  He roared in pain each time one found its mark, 
but they affected him like bee stings. He just got madder and kept fighting. 
Thalia and Luke went spear on sword, li ghtning still flashing around them. Thalia 
pressed Luke back with the aura of her shiel d. Even he was not immune to it. He retreated, 
wincing and growling in frustration. 
"Yield!" Thalia yelled. "You never could beat me, Luke." 
He bared his teeth. "Well see, my old friend." Sweat poured down my face. My hands were s lippery. My shoulders would've screamed 
with agony if they could. I felt like the vertebrae in my spine were being welded together by a 
blowtorch.  Atlas advanced, pressing Artemis. She was fast, but his strength was unstoppable. His 
javelin slammed into the earth where Artemis ha d been a split second before, and a fissure 
opened in the rocks. He leaped over it and kept pursuing her. She was leading him back 
toward me. 
Get ready , she spoke in my mind. 
I was losing the ability to think through the pain. My response was something like 
Agggghh-owwwwwwww . 
"You fight well for a girl." Atlas lau ghed. "But you are no match for me." 
He feinted with the tip of  his javelin and Artemis dodge d. I saw the trick coming. 
Atlas's javelin swept around a nd knocked Artemis's legs off the ground. She fell, and Atlas 
brought up his javelin tip for the kill. 
"No!" Zoe screamed. She leaped between he r father and Artemis and shot an arrow 
straight into the Titan's forehead, where it lodged like a unicorn's horn. Atlas bellowed in 
rage. He swept aside his daughter with the back  of his hand, sending he r flying into the black 
rocks. 
I wanted to shout her name, run to her aid, but I couldn't speak or move. I couldn't even 
see where Zoe had landed. Then Atlas turned on Artemis with a look of triumph in his face. 
Artemis seemed to be wounded. She didn't get up. 
"The first blood in a new war," Atla s gloated. And he stabbed downward. 
As fast as thought, Artemis gra bbed his javelin shaft. It hit the earth right next to her 
and she pulled backward, using the javelin like a lever, kicking the Titan Lord and sending 
him flying over her, I saw him coming down on t op of me and I reali zed what would happen. 
I loosened my grip on the sky, and as Atlas slammed into me I didn' t try to hold on. I let 
myself be pushed out of the way and rolled for all I was worth. 
The weight of the sky dropped onto Atlas's back, almost smashing him flat until he 
managed to get to his knees, str uggling to get out from under the crushing weight of the sky. 
But it was too late. 
"Noooooo!" He bellowed so hard it shook the mountain. " Not again !" 
Atlas was trapped under his old burden. 
I tried to stand and fell back  again, dazed from pain. My body felt like it was burning 
up. 
Thalia backed Luke to the e dge of a cliff, but still they  fought on, next to the golden 
coffin. Thalia had tears in her eyes. Luke had a bloody slash across his chest and his pale face 
glistened with sweat. 
He lunged at Thalia and she slammed him with  her shield. Luke's sword spun out of his 
hands and clattered to the rocks. Thalia put her spear point to his throat.  For a moment, there was silence. 
"Well?" Luke asked. He tried to hide it,  but I could hear fear in his voice. 
Thalia trembled with fury. Behind her, Annabeth came scrambling, finally free from her bonds. Her face was 
bruised and streaked with  dirt. "Don't kill him!" 
"He's a traitor," Thalia said. "A traitor!" 
In my daze, I realized that Artemis was no longer with me. She had run off toward the 
black rocks where Zoe had fallen. 
"We'll bring Luke back," Annabeth pleaded. "To Olympus. He… he'll be useful." "Is that what you want, Thalia?" Luke sneere d. "To go back to Olympus in triumph? To 
please your dad?" 
Thalia hesitated, and Luke made a desperate grab for her spear. "No!" Annabeth shouted. But it was too late. Without thi nking, Thalia kicked Luke 
away. He lost his balance, terror  on his face, and then he fell. 
"Luke!" Annabeth screamed. We rushed to the cliff's edge. Below us, the army from the Princess Andromeda  had 
stopped in amazement. They were staring at Lu ke's broken form on the rocks. Despite how 
much I hated him, I couldn't stand to see it. I want ed to believe he was still alive, but that was 
impossible. The fall was fifty feet at least, and he wasn't moving. 
One of the giants looked up and growled, "Kill them!" 
Thalia was stiff with grief, tears streaming down her cheeks. I pulled her back as a wave 
of javelins sailed over our heads. We ran for the rocks, ignoring the curses and threats of Atlas 
as we passed. 
"Artemis!" I yelled. The goddess looked up, her face almost as grief-stricken as Thalia's. Zoe lay in the 
goddess's arms. She was breathing. Her eyes were open. But still… 
"The wound is poisoned," Artemis said. 
"Atlas poisoned her?" I asked. 
"No," the goddess said. "Not Atlas."  She showed us the wound in Zoe's side. I'd al most forgotten her scrape with Ladon the 
dragon. The bite was much worse than Zoe ha d let on. I could barely look at the wound. She 
had charged into battle against her father wi th a horrible cut alrea dy sapping her strength. 
"The stars," Zoe murmured. "I cannot see them." 
"Nectar and ambrosia," I said. "Com e on! We have to get her some." 
No one moved. Grief hung in air. The army of Kronos was just be low the rise. Even 
Artemis was too shocked to stir. We might've met our doom right there, but then I heard a 
strange buzzing noise. 
Just as the army of monsters came over the hill, a Sopwith Camel swooped down out of 
the sky. 
"Get away from my daughter!" Dr. Chas e called down, and his m achine guns burst to 
life, peppering the ground with bullet holes and startling the whole gr oup of monsters into 
scattering. 
"Dad?" yelled Annabeth in disbelief. 
"Run!" he called back, his voice grow ing fainter as the biplane swooped by. 
This shook Artemis out of her grief. She stared up at the antique plane, which was now 
banking around for another strafe. 
"A brave man," Artemis said with grudging approval. "Come, We must get Zoe away 
from here." 
She raised her hunting horn to her lips, a nd its clear sound echoed down the valleys of 
Marin. Zoe's eyes were fluttering. 
"Hang in there!" I told he r. "It'll be all right!" 
The Sopwith Camel swooped down again. A few giants threw javelins, and one flew 
straight between the wings of the plane, but the machine guns blazed. I realized with 
amazement that somehow Dr. Chase must've go tten hold of celestial bronze to fashion his 
bullets. The first row of snake women wailed as the machine gun's volley blew them into 
sulfurous yellow powder. 
"That's… my dad!" Annabeth said in amazement. 
We didn't have time to admire his flying. The giants and snake women were already 
recovering from their surprise. Dr . Chase would be in trouble soon. 
Just then, the moonlight brightened, and a s ilver chariot appeared from the sky, drawn 
by the most beautiful deer I had ever seen. It landed right next to us. 
"Get in," Artemis said.  Annabeth helped me get Thalia on board. Then  I helped Artemis with Zoe. We wrapped 
Zoe in a blanket as Artemis pulled the reins and the chariot sped away from the mountain, 
straight into the air. 
"Like Santa Claus's sleigh," I mu rmured, still dazed with pain. 
Artemis took time to look back at me. "Indeed, young half-blood. And where do you 
think that legend came from?" 
Seeing us safely away, Dr. Chase turned his biplane and followed us like an honor 
guard. It must have been one of the strangest sights ever, even for the Bay Area: a silver 
flying chariot pulled by deer, escorted by a Sopwith Camel. 
Behind us, the army of Kronos roared in ange r as they gathered on the summit of Mount 
Tamalpais, but the loudest sound was the voice of Atlas, bellow ing curses against the gods as 
he struggled under the weight of the sky. 
  EIGHTEEN  
A FRIEND SAYS GOOD-BYE  
We landed at Crissy Field after nightfall. 
As soon as Dr. Chase stepped out of his Sopw ith Camel, Annabeth ran to him and gave 
him a huge hug. "Dad! You flew… you shot… oh my  gods! That was the most amazing thing 
I've ever seen!" 
Her father blushed. "Well, not bad for a middle-aged mortal, I suppose." 
"But the celestial bronze bullets! How did you get those?" 
"Ah, well. You did leave quite a few half-blo od weapons in your room in Virginia, the 
last time you… left." 
Annabeth looked down, embarrasse d. I noticed Dr. Chase was very careful not to say 
ran away . 
"I decided to try melting some down to make bullet casings," he co ntinued. "Jus t a little 
experiment." 
He said it like it was no big deal, but he had a gleam in his eye. I could understand all of 
a sudden why Athena, Goddess of Crafts and Wis dom, had taken a liking to him. He was an 
excellent mad scientist at heart. 
"Dad…" Annabeth faltered. "Annabeth, Percy," Thalia interrupted. He r voice was urgent. She and Artemis were 
kneeling at Zoe's side, bi nding the huntress's wounds. 
Annabeth and I ran over to  help, but there wasn't mu ch we could do. We had no 
ambrosia or nectar. No regular medicine woul d help. It was dark, bu t I could see that Zoe 
didn't look good. She was shivering, and the fa int glow that usually hung around her was 
fading. 
"Can't you heal her with magic?" I as ked Artemis. "I mean… you're a goddess." 
Artemis looked troubled. "Life is a fragile thi ng, Percy. If the Fates will the string to be 
cut, there is little I can do. But I can try." 
She tried to set her hand on Zoe's side, but Zoe gripped her wrist. She looked into the 
goddess's eyes, and some kind of understanding passed between them. 
"Have I… served thee well?" Zoe whispered.  "With great honor," Artemis said softl y. "The finest of my attendants." 
Zoe's face relaxed. "Rest. At last." 
"I can try to heal th e poison, my brave one." 
But in that moment, I knew it wasn't just th e poison that was killing her. It was her 
father's final blow. Zoe had known all along that th e Oracle's prophecy was about her: she 
would die by a parent's hand. And yet she'd take n the quest anyway. She had chosen to save 
me, and Atlas's fury had broken her inside. 
She saw Thalia, and took her hand. "I am sorry we argued," Zoe sai d. "We could have been sisters." 
"It's my fault," Thalia said, blinking har d. "You were right about Luke, about heroes, 
men—everything." 
"Perhaps not all men," Zoe murmured. She sm iled weakly at me. "D o you still have the 
sword, Percy?" 
I couldn't speak, but I brought out Riptide and put the pen in her hand. She grasped it 
contentedly. "You spoke the truth, Percy Jack son. You are nothing like… like Hercules. I am 
honored that you carry this sword." 
A shudder ran through her body. 
"Zoe—" I said. 
"Stars," she whispered. "I can see the stars again, my lady." 
A tear trickled down Artemis's cheek. "Yes, my brave one. They are beautiful tonight." 
"Stars," Zoe repeated. Her eyes fixed on the night sky. And she did not move again. 
Thalia lowered her head. Anna beth gulped down a sob, and her father put his hands on 
her shoulders. I watched as Artemis cupped her hand above Zoe's mouth and spoke a few 
words in Ancient Greek. A silvery wisp of smoke exhaled from Zoe's lips and was caught in 
the hand of the goddess. Zoe's body shimmered and disappeared. 
Artemis stood, said a kind of blessing, breathe d into her cupped hand and released the 
silver dust to the sky. It fl ew up, sparkling, and vanished. 
For a moment I didn't see anything different . Then Annabeth gasped. Looking up in the 
sky, I saw that the stars were brighter now. They  made a pattern I had never noticed before—a 
gleaming constellation that looke d a lot like a girl's figure—a girl with a bow, running across 
the sky. 
"Let the world honor you, my Huntress," Arte mis said. "Live forever in the stars."  It wasn't easy saying our good-byes. The t hunder and lightning were  still boiling over 
Mount Tamalpais in the north. Artemis was so upset  she flickered with silver light. This made 
me nervous, because if she suddenly lost contro l and appeared in her fully divine form, we 
would disintegrate by looking at her. 
"I must go to Olympus immediately," Artemis sa id. "I will not be ab le to take you, but I 
will send help." 
The goddess set her hand on Annabeth's shoul der. "You are brave beyond measure, my 
girl. You will do what is right." 
Then she looked quizzically at Thalia, as if  she weren't sure what to make of this 
younger daughter of Zeus. Thalia seemed reluct ant to look up, but something made her, and 
she held the goddess's eyes. I wasn't sure what passed between them, but Artemis's gaze 
softened with sympathy. Then she turned to me. 
"You did well," she said. "For a man." 
I wanted to protest. But then I realized it was the first ti me she hadn't called me a boy. 
She mounted her chariot, which began to gl ow. We averted our eyes. There was a flash 
of silver, and the goddess was gone. 
"Well," Dr. Chase sighed. "She was impressive ; though I must say I st ill prefer Athena." 
Annabeth turned toward him. "Dad, I… I'm sorry that—" "Shh." He hugged her. "Do what you must, my  dear. I know this isn't easy for you." 
His voice was a little shaky, but he  gave Annabeth a brave smile. 
Then I heard the whoosh of large wings. Thre e pegasi descended through the fog: two 
white winged horses and one pure black one. 
"Blackjack!" I called. 
Yo,boss ! he called. You manage to stay alive okay without me ? 
"It was rough," I admitted. I brought Guido and Porkpie with me.  
How ya doin ? The other two pegasi spoke in my mind. 
Blackjack looked me over with concern, th en checked out Dr. Chase, Thalia, and 
Annabeth. Any of these goons you want us to stampede ? 
"Nah," I said aloud. "These are my friends. We  need to get to Olympus pretty fast." 
No problem , Blackjack said. Except for the mortal over there. Hope he's not going .  I assured him Dr. Chase was not. The profe ssor was staring openmouthed at the pegasi. 
"Fascinating," he said. "Such maneuverabil ity! How does the wingspan compensate for 
the weight of the horse's body, I wonder?" 
Blackjack cocked his head. Whaaaat ? 
"Why, if the British had had these pegasi in the cavalry charges on the Crimea," Dr. 
Chase said, "the charge of the light brigade—" 
"Dad!" Annabeth interrupted. 
Dr. Chase blinked. He looked at his daughter and managed a smile. "I'm sorry, my dear, 
I know you must go." 
He gave her one last awkward, well-meaning hug. As she turned to climb aboard the 
pegasus Guido, Dr. Chase called, "Annabeth. I know… I know San Francisco is a dangerous 
place for you. But please remember, you always have a home with us. We will keep you 
safe." 
Annabeth didn't answer, but her eyes were re d as she turned away. Dr. Chase started to 
say more, then apparently thought better of it. He raised his hand in a sad farewell and trudged 
away across the dark field. 
Thalia and Annabeth and I mounted our pegasi. Together we soared over the bay and 
flew toward the eastern hills. Soon San Francisco was only a glittering crescent behind us, 
with an occasional flicker of lightning in the north. 
Thalia was so exhausted she fell asleep on Porkpie's back. I knew she had to be really 
tired to sleep in the air, despite her fear of heights, but she didn't have much to worry about. 
Her pegasus flew with ease, adjusting himself ev ery once in a while so Thalia stayed safely on 
his back. 
Annabeth and I flew along side by side. "Your dad seems cool," I told her. 
It was too dark to see her expression. Sh e looked back, even though California was far 
behind us now. 
"I guess so," she said. "We've been arguing for so many years." 
"Yeah, you said." "You think I was lying about that?" It sounded like a challenge, but a pretty halfhearted 
one, like she was asking it of herself.  "I didn't say you were lying. It's just… he seems okay. Your stepmom, too. Maybe 
they've, uh, gotten cooler since you saw them last." 
She hesitated. "They're still in San Francisc o, Percy. I can't live so far from camp." 
I didn't want to ask my next question. I wa s scared to know the answer. But I asked it 
anyway. "So what are you going to do now?" 
We flew over a town, an island of lights in the middl e of the dark. It whisked by so fast 
we might've been in an airplane. 
"I don't know," she admitted. "But thank you for rescuing me." 
"Hey, no big deal. We're friends." "You didn't believe I was dead?" 
"Never." 
She hesitated. "Neither is Luke, you know. I mean… he isn't dead." 
I stared at her. I didn't know if she was cracking under the stress  or what. "Annabeth, 
that fall was pretty bad. There's no way—" 
"He isn't dead," she insisted. "I know it. The same way you knew about me." 
That comparison didn't make me too happy. 
The towns were zipping by faster now, islands  of light thicker toge ther, until the whole 
landscape below was a glittering carpet. Dawn wa s close. The eastern sky was turning gray. 
And up ahead, a huge white-and-yellow glow spread  out before us—the lights of New York. 
How's that for speedy, loss ? Blackjack bragged. We get extra hay for breakfast or what ? 
"You're the man, Blackjack," I told  him. "Er, the horse, I mean." 
"You don't believe me about Luke," Annabeth said, "but we'll see him again. He's in 
trouble, Percy. He's under Kronos's spell." 
I didn't feel like argu ing, though it made me mad. How coul d she still have any feelings 
for that creep? How could she possibly make excuses for him? He de served that fall. He 
deserved… okay, I'll say it. He deserved to die.  Unlike Bianca. Unlike Zoe. Luke couldn't be 
alive. It wouldn't be fair. 
"There it is." Thalia's voi ce; she'd woken up. She was pointing toward Manhattan, 
which was quickly zooming into view. "It's started." 
"What's started?" I asked.  Then I looked where she was pointing. High above the Empire State Building, Olympus 
was its own island of light, a floating mountain ab laze with torches and braziers, white marble 
palaces gleaming in the early morning air. 
"The winter solstice," Thalia sa id. "The Council of the Gods." 
  NINETEEN  
THE GODS VOTE HOW TO KILL US  
Flying was bad enough for a son of Poseidon, but flying straight up to Zeus's palace, 
with thunder and lightning swir ling around it, was even worse. 
We circled over midtown Manhattan, ma king one complete orbit around Mount 
Olympus. I'd only been there once before, traveli ng by elevator up to the secret six hundredth 
floor of the Empire State Build ing. This time, if it was possi ble, Olympus amazed me even 
more. 
In the early-morning darkness, torches and fires made the mountai nside palaces glow 
twenty different colors, from bloodred to i ndigo. Apparently no one ever slept on Olympus. 
The twisting streets were full of demigods a nd nature spirits and minor godlings bustling 
about, riding chariots or sedan chairs carried by  Cyclopes. Winter didn't seem to exist here. I 
caught the scent of the gardens in full bloom, jasmine and roses and even sweeter things I 
couldn't name. Music drifted up from many windows,  the soft sounds of lyres and reed pipes. 
Towering at the peak of the mountain was the greatest palace of a ll, the glowing white 
hall of the gods. 
Our pegasi set us down in the outer courtyard, in front of huge silver gates. Before I 
could even think to knock, the gates opened by themselves. 
Good luck, boss , Blackjack said. 
"Yeah." I didn't know why, but I had a sens e of doom. I'd never seen all the gods 
together. I knew any one of them could blast me to dust, and a few of them would like to. 
Hey, if ya don't come back, can I have your cabin for my stable?  
I looked at the pegasus. 
Just a thought , he said. Sorry . 
Blackjack and his friends flew off, leav ing Thalia, Annabeth, and me alone. For a 
minute we stood there regarding the palace, the way we'd stood together in front of Westover 
Hall, what seemed like a million years ago. 
And then, side by side, we walked into the throne room. 
  Twelve enormous thrones made a U around a ce ntral hearth, just like the placement of 
the cabins at camp. The ceiling above glittered with constellations—even the newest one, Zoe 
the Huntress, making her way across the heavens with her bow drawn.  All of the seats were occupi ed. Each god and goddess was about fifteen feet tall, and I'm 
telling you, if you've ever had a dozen all-powerful super-huge be ings turn their eyes on you 
at once… Well, suddenly, facing monsters seemed like a picnic. 
"Welcome, heroes," Artemis said. 
"Mooo!" 
That's when I noticed Bessie and Grover. 
A sphere of water was hovering in the center of  the room, next to the hearth fire. Bessie 
was swimming happily around, swishing his serpent tail and poking his head out the sides and 
bottom of the sphere. He seemed to be enj oying the novelty of swimming in a magic bubble. 
Grover was kneeling at Zeus's throne, as if he'd just been giving a report, but when he saw us, 
he cried, "You made it!" 
He started to run toward me, then rememb ered he was turning his back on Zeus, and 
looked for permission. 
"Go on," Zeus said. But he wasn't really payi ng attention to Grover. The lord of the sky 
was staring intently at Thalia. 
Grover trotted over. None of the gods s poke. Every clop of Grover's hooves echoed on 
the marble floor. Bessie splashed in his bubbl e of water. The hearth fire crackled. 
I looked nervously at my father, Poseidon. He  was dressed similar to the last time I'd 
seen him: beach shorts, a Hawaiian shirt, a nd sandals. He had a weathered, suntanned face 
with a dark beard and deep green eyes. I wasn 't sure how he would feel about seeing me 
again, but the corners of his eyes crinkled with smile lines. He nodded as if to say It's okay. 
Grover gave Annabeth and Thalia big hugs. Th en he grasped my arms. "Percy, Bessie 
and I made it! But you have to convince them! They can't do it!" 
"Do what?" I asked. 
"Heroes," Artemis called. 
The goddess slid down from her throne and turned to human size, a young auburn-
haired girl, perfectly at ease in  the midst of the giant Olympians. She walked toward us, her 
silver robes shimmering. There was no emotion in her face. She seemed to walk in a column 
of moonlight. 
"The Council has been informed of your d eeds," Artemis told us. "They know that 
Mount Othrys is rising in the West. They know of Atlas's attempt for freedom, and the 
gathering armies of Kronos. We have voted to act." 
There was some mumbling and shuffling among  the gods, as if they weren't all happy 
with this plan, but nobody protested.  "At my Lord Zeus's command," Artemis sai d, "my brother Apollo and I shall hunt the 
most powerful monsters, seeking to strike them  down before they can join the Titans' cause. 
Lady Athena shall personally check on the other Titans to make sure they do not escape their 
various prisons. Lord Poseidon has been given permission to unleash his full fury on the 
cruise ship Princess Andromeda  and send it to the bottom of the sea. And as for you, my 
heroes…" 
She turned to face the other immortals. "T hese half-bloods have done Olympus a great 
service. Would any here deny that?" 
She looked around at the assembled gods, meeti ng their faces indivi dually. Zeus in his 
dark pin-striped suit, his black beard neatly trimmed, and his eyes sparking with energy. Next 
to him sat a beautiful woman w ith silver hair braided over one shoulder and a dress that 
shimmered colors like peacock feathers. The Lady Hera. 
On Zeus's right, my father Poseidon. Next to  him, a huge lump of a man with a leg in a 
steel brace, a misshapen head, and a wild br own beard, fire flickeri ng through his whiskers. 
The Lord of the Forges, Hephaestus. 
Hermes winked at me. He was wearing a bus iness suit today, checking messages on his 
caduceus mobile phone. Apollo leaned back in his golden throne with his shades on. He had 
iPod headphones on, so I wasn't sure he was even listening, but he gave me a thumbs-up. Dionysus looked bored, twirling a grape vine be tween his fingers. And Ares, well, he sat on 
his chrome-and-leather throne, glowering at me while he sharpened a knife. 
On the ladies' side of the th rone room, a dark-h aired goddess in green robes sat next to 
Hera on a throne woven of apple-tree branches. De meter, Goddess of the Harvest. Next to her 
sat a beautiful gray-eyed woman in an elegan t white dress. She could only be Annabeth's 
mother, Athena. Then there was Aphrodite, w ho smiled at me knowingly and made me blush 
in spite of myself. 
All the Olympians in one place. So much pow er in this room it was a miracle the whole 
palace didn't blow apart. 
"I gotta say"—Apollo broke the silence—"the se kids did okay." He cleared his throat 
and began to recite: " Heroes win laurels —" 
"Um, yes, first class," Hermes interrupted, like he was anxious to avoid Apollo's poetry. 
"All in favor of not disintegrating them?" 
A few tentative hands went up—Demeter, Aphrodite. 
"Wait just a minute," Ares growled. He poi nted at Thalia and me. "These two are 
dangerous. It'd be much safer,  while we've got them here—" 
"Ares," Poseidon interrupted, "they are worthy heroes. We will not blast my son to 
bits." 
"Nor my daughter," Zeus grumbled. "She has done well."  Thalia blushed. She studied the floor. I knew ho w she felt. I'd hardly ever talked to my 
father, much less gotten a compliment. 
The goddess Athena cleared her throat and sa t forward. "I am proud of my daughter as 
well. But there is a security ri sk here with the other two." 
"Mother!" Annabeth said. "How can you—" 
Athena cut her off with a calm but firm look. "I t is unfortunate that my father, Zeus, and 
my uncle, Poseidon, chose to break their oath not to have more children. Only Hades kept his 
word, a fact that I find ironic. As we know from the Great Prophecy, children of the three 
elder gods… such as Thalia and Percy… are dangerous. As thickh eaded as he is, Ares has a 
point." 
"Right!" Ares said. "Hey, wa it a minute. Who you callin'—" 
He started to get up, but a grape vine grew  around his waist like a seat belt and pulled 
him back down. 
"Oh, please, Ares," Dionysus sighe d. "Save the fighting for later." 
Ares cursed and ripped away the vine. "You' re one to talk, you old drunk. You seriously 
want to protect these brats?" 
Dionysus gazed down at us wearily. "I have no love for them. Athena, do you truly 
think it safest to destroy them?" 
"I do not pass judgment," Athena said. "I only point out the risk. What we do, the 
Council must decide." 
"I will not have them punished," Artemis said. "I will have them rewarded. If we 
destroy heroes who do us a gr eat favor, then we are no better than the Titans. If this is 
Olympian justice, I will have none of it." 
"Calm down, sis," Apollo said. "Jeez, you need to lighten up." 
"Don't call me sis ! I will reward them." 
"Well," Zeus grumbled. "Perhaps. But the monster at least must be destroyed. We have 
agreement on that?" 
A lot of nodding heads. 
It took me a second to realize what they we re saying. Then my heart turned to lead. 
"Bessie? You want to destroy Bessie?" 
"Mooooooo!" Bessie protested. 
My father frowned. "You have named the Ophiotaurus Bessie?"  "Dad," I said, "he's just a sea creature. A really nice sea creature. You can't destroy 
him." 
Poseidon shifted uncomfortably. "Percy, the monster's power is c onsiderable. If the 
Titans were to steal it, or—" 
"You can't," I insisted. I looked at Zeus. I proba bly should have been afraid of him, but I 
stared him right in the eye. "Controlling the pro phecies never works. Isn't that true? Besides, 
Bess—the Ophiotaurus is innocent. Killing some thing like that is wrong. It's just as wrong 
as… as Kronos eating his children, just because of something they might  do. It's wrong!" 
Zeus seemed to consider this. His eyes drif ted to his daughter Thalia. "And what of the 
risk? Kronos knows full well, if one of you were to sacrifice the beast' s entrails, you would 
have the power to destroy us. Do you think we  can let that possibi lity remain? You, my 
daughter, will turn sixteen on the morro w, just as the prophecy says." 
"You have to trust them," Annabeth s poke up. "Sir, you have to trust them." 
Zeus scowled. "Trust a hero?" 
"Annabeth is right," Artemis said. "Which is why I must first make a reward. My 
faithful companion, Zoe Nightshade, has passed into  the stars. I must have a new lieutenant. 
And I intend to choose one. But first, Fa ther Zeus, I must speak to you privately." 
Zeus beckoned Artemis forward. He leaned down and listened as she spoke in his ear. 
A feeling of panic seized  me. "Annabeth," I said under my breath. "Don't." 
She frowned at me. "What?" "Look, I need to tell you something," I conti nued. The words came stumbling out of me. 
"I couldn't stand it if… I don't want you to—" 
"Percy?" she said. "You look like you're going to be sick." 
And that's how I felt. I wanted to say mo re, but my tongue betrayed me. It wouldn't 
move because of the fear in my stomach. And then Artemis turned. 
"I shall have a new lieutenant," she announced. "If she will accept it." 
"No," I murmured. 
"Thalia," Artemis said. "Daughter of  Zeus. Will you join the Hunt?" 
Stunned silence filled the room. I stared at Thalia, unable to believe  what I was hearing. 
Annabeth smiled. She squeezed Thalia's hand and let it go, as if she'd been expecting this all 
along. 
"I will," Thalia said firmly.  Zeus rose, his eyes full of c oncern. "My daughter, consider well—" 
"Father," she said. "I will not turn sixteen tomorrow. I will never turn sixteen. I won't let 
this prophecy be mine. I stand with my sister  Artemis. Kronos will never tempt me again." 
She knelt before the goddess and began the words I remembered from Bianca's oath, 
what seemed like so long ago. "I pledge myself  to the goddess Artemis. I turn my back on the 
company of men…" 
Afterward, Thalia did something that surprised me almost as much as the pledge. She 
came over to me, smiled, and in front of th e whole assembly, she gave me a big hug. 
I blushed. 
When she pulled away and gripped my shoulders, I said, "Um… aren't you supposed to 
not do that anymore? Hug boys, I mean?" 
"I'm honoring a friend," she corrected. "I must  join the Hunt, Percy. I haven't known 
peace since… since Half-Blood Hill. I finally f eel like I have a home. But you're a hero. You 
will be the one of the prophecy." 
"Great," I muttered. 
"I'm proud to be your friend." 
She hugged Annabeth, who was trying hard not  to cry. Then she even hugged Grover, 
who looked ready to pass out, like somebody had just given him an all-you-can-eat enchilada 
coupon. 
Then Thalia went to stand by Artemis's side. 
"Now for the Ophiotaurus," Artemis said. 
"This boy is still dangerous," Dionysus warn ed. "The beast is a temptation to great 
power. Even if we spare the boy—" 
"No." I looked around at all the gods. "Please.  Keep the Ophiotaurus safe. My dad can 
hide him under the sea somewhere, or keep hi m in an aquarium here in Olympus. But you 
have to protect him." 
"And why should we trust you?" rumbled Hephaestus. 
"I'm only fourteen," I said. "If this proph ecy is about me, that's two more years." 
"Two years for Kronos to deceive you," Athena said. "Much can change in two years, 
my young hero." 
"Mother!" Annabeth said, exasperated. "It is only the truth, child. It  is bad strategy to keep the animal alive. Or the boy."  My father stood. "I will not have a sea crea ture destroyed, if I can help it. And I can 
help it." 
He held out his hand, and a trid ent appeared in it: a twenty foot long bronze shaft with 
three spear tips that shimmered with blue, watery light. "I will vouch for the boy and the 
safety of the Ophiotaurus." 
"You won't take it under the sea!" Zeus stood suddenly. "I  won't have that kind of 
bargaining chip in your possession." 
"Brother, please," Poseidon sighed. 
Zeus's lightning bolt appeared in his hand, a shaft of electricity that filled the whole 
room with the smell of ozone. 
"Fine," Poseidon said. "I will build an aqua rium for the creature here. Hephaestus can 
help me. The creature will be safe. We shall pr otect it with all our pow ers. The boy will not 
betray us. I vouch for this on my honor." 
Zeus thought about this. "All in favor?" 
To my surprise, a lot of hands went up. Di onysus abstained. So did Ares and Athena. 
But everybody else… 
"We have a majority," Zeus decreed. "And so, since we will not be destroying these 
heroes… I imagine we should honor them. Let the triumph celebration begin!" 
  There are parties, and then there are huge, ma jor, blowout parties. And then there are 
Olympian parties. If you ever get a choice, go for the Olympian. 
The Nine Muses cranked up the tunes, a nd I realized the music was whatever you 
wanted it to be: the gods coul d listen to classical and the younger demigods heard hip-hop or 
whatever, and it was all the same sound track. No  arguments. No fights to change the radio 
station. Just requests to crank it up. 
Dionysus went around growing refreshment st ands out of the ground, and a beautiful 
woman walked with him arm in arm—his wife , Ariadne. Dionysus looked happy for the first 
time. Nectar and ambrosia overflowed from gol den fountains, and platters of mortal snack 
food crowded the banquet tables. Golden goblets filled with whatever drink you wanted. 
Grover trotted around with a full plate of tin cans and enchiladas, and his goblet was full of 
double-espresso latte, which he kept mutteri ng over like an incantation: "Pan! Pan!" 
Gods kept coming over to congratulate me. Th ankfully, they had reduced themselves to 
human size, so they didn't accidentally tram ple partygoers under their feet. Hermes started 
chatting with me, and he was so cheerful I hate d to tell him what had happened to his least-
favorite son, Luke, but before I could even get up the courage, Hermes got a call on his caduceus and walked away.  Apollo told me I could drive his sun chario t any time, and if I ever wanted archery 
lessons— 
"Thanks," I told him. "But se riously, I'm no good at archery." 
"Ah, nonsense," he said. "Target practice from the chariot as we fly over the U.S.? Best 
fun there is!" 
I made some excuses and wove through the cr owds that were danc ing in the palace 
courtyards. I was looking for Annabeth. Last I sa w her, she'd been dancing with some minor 
godling. 
Then a man's voice behind me said, "You won't let me down, I hope." 
I turned and found Poseidon smiling at me. "Dad… hi." 
"Hello, Percy. You've done well." 
His praise made me uneasy. I mean, it felt good, but I knew just how much he'd put 
himself on the line, vouching for me. It would've b een a lot easier to let the others disintegrate 
me. 
"I won't let you down," I promised. 
He nodded. I had trouble reading gods' emoti ons, but I wondered if he had some doubts. 
"Your friend Luke—" 
"He's not my friend," I blurted out. Then I realized it wa s probably rude to interrupt. 
"Sorry." 
"Your former  friend Luke," Poseidon corrected. "H e once promised things like that. He 
was Hermes's pride and joy. Just bear that in mind, Percy. Even the bravest can fall." 
"Luke fell pretty hard," I agreed. "He's dead." 
Poseidon shook his head. "No, Percy. He is not." 
I stared at him. "What?" 
"I believe Annabeth told you th is. Luke still lives. I have se en it. His boat sails from San 
Francisco with the remains of Kronos even now. He will retreat and regroup before assaulting 
you again. I will do my best to destroy his boat with  storms, but he is making alliances with 
my enemies, the older spirits of the ocean. They will fight to protect him." 
"How can he be alive?" I said. "That fall should've killed him!"  Poseidon looked troubled. "I don't know, Percy, but beware of him. He is more 
dangerous than ever. And the golden coffin is still with him, still growing in strength." 
"What about Atlas?" I said. "What's to prev ent him from escaping again? Couldn't he 
just force some giant or something to take the sky for him?" 
My father snorted in derision. "If it were so easy, he would have escaped long ago. No, 
my son. The curse of the sky can only be forced  upon a Titan, one of th e children of Gaia and 
Ouranous. Anyone else must choose  to take the burden of their own free will. Only a hero, 
someone with strength, a true heart, and great courage, woul d do such a thing. No one in 
Kronos's army would dare try to bear that weight, even upon pain of death." 
"Luke did it," I said. "He let Atlas go. Then  he tricked Annabeth into saving him and 
used her to convince Artemis to take the sky." 
"Yes," Poseidon said. "Luke is… an interesting case." 
I think he wanted to say more, but just then, Bessie started m ooing from across the 
courtyard. Some demigods were playing with his water sphere, joyously  pushing it back and 
forth over the top of the crowd, 
"I'd better take care of that," Poseidon grum bled. "We can't have th e Ophiotaurus tossed 
around like a beach ball. Be good, my son. We  may not speak again for some time." 
And just like that he was gone. 
I was about to keep searchi ng the crowd when another voic e spoke. "Your father takes a 
great risk, you know." 
I found myself face-to-face with a gray-eyed woman who looked so much like 
Annabeth I almost called her that. 
"Athena." I tried not to sound resentful, after the way she'd written me off in the 
council, but I guess I didn't hide it very well. 
She smiled dryly. "Do not judge me too harshl y, half-blood. Wise counsel is not always 
popular, but I spoke the tr uth. You are dangerous." 
"You never take risks?" She nodded. "I concede the point. You may perhaps be useful. And yet… your fatal 
flaw may destroy us as well as yourself." 
My heart crept into my throat. A year ago,  Annabeth and I had ha d a talk about fatal 
flaws. Every hero had one. Hers, she said, wa s pride. She believed she could do anything… 
like holding up the world, for instance. Or savi ng Luke. But I didn't really know what mine 
was. 
Athena looked almost sorry for me. "Kr onos knows your flaw, even if you do not. He 
knows how to study his enemies. Think, Percy. How has he manipulated you? First, your  mother was taken from you. Then your best friend, Grover. Now my daughter, Annabeth." 
She paused, disapproving. "In each case, your loved ones have been used to lure you into 
Kronos's traps. Your fatal flaw is personal lo yalty, Percy. You do not know when it is time to 
cut your losses. To save a friend, you would sa crifice the world. In a hero of the prophecy, 
that is very, very dangerous." 
I balled my fists. "That's not a flaw. Ju st because I want to help my friends—" 
"The most dangerous flaws are those which are good in moderation,"  she said. "Evil is 
easy to fight. Lack of wisdom… that is very hard indeed." 
I wanted to argue, but I found I couldn' t. Athena was pretty darn smart. 
"I hope the Council's decisions prove wise," Athena said. "But I will be watching, Percy 
Jackson. I do not approve of your friendship with my daughter. I do not think it wise for either 
of you. And should you begin to waver in your loyalties…" 
She fixed me with her cold gray stare, a nd I realized what a terrible enemy Athena 
would make, ten times worse than Ares or Dio nysus or maybe even my father. Athena would 
never give up. She would never do something rash  or stupid just because she hated you, and if 
she made a plan to destroy you, it would not fail. 
"Percy!" Annabeth said, running through the crowd. She stopped short when she saw 
who I was talking to. "Oh… Mom." 
"I will leave you," Athe na said. "For now." 
She turned and strode through the crowds, which parted before her as if she were 
carrying Aegis. 
"Was she giving you a hard time?" Annabeth asked. 
"No," I said. "It's… fine." 
She studied me with concern. She touched th e new streak of gray in my hair that 
matched hers exactly—our painful souvenir fr om holding Atlas's burden. There was a lot I'd 
wanted to say to Annabeth, but Athena had take n the confidence out of me. I felt like I'd been 
punched in the gut. 
I do not approve of your friendship with my daughter.  
"So," Annabeth said. "What di d you want to tell me earlier?" 
The music was playing. People were dancing in  the streets. I said, "I, uh, was thinking 
we got interrupted at Westover Ha ll. And… I think I owe you a dance." 
She smiled slowly. "All right, Seaweed Brain." So I took her hand, and I don't know what ev erybody else heard, but to me it sounded 
like a slow dance: a li ttle sad, but maybe a little hopeful, too.  TWENTY  
I GET A NEW ENEMY FOR CHRISTMAS  
Before I left Olympus, I decided to make a few calls. It wasn't eas y, but I finally found a 
quiet fountain in a corner garden  and sent an Iris-message to  my brother, Tyson, under the 
sea. I told him about our adventures, and Bessi e—he wanted to hear every detail about the 
cute baby cow serpent—and I assured him that Annabeth was safe. Finally I got around to 
explaining how the shield he'd made me last  summer had been damaged in the manticore 
attack. 
"Yay!" Tyson said. "That means it was good! It saved your life!" 
"It sure did, big guy," I sai d. "But now it's ruined." 
"Not ruined!" Tyson promised. "I will visit and fix it next summer." 
The idea picked me up instantly. I guess I hadn't realized how much I missed having 
Tyson around. 
"Seriously?" I asked. "They' ll let you take time off?" 
"Yes! I have made two thousand seven hundr ed and forty-one magic swords," Tyson 
said proudly, showing me the newest blade. "T he boss says 'good work'! He will let me take 
the whole summer off. I will visit camp!" 
We talked for a while about war preparations  and our dad's fight with the old sea gods, 
and all the cool things we could do together next summer, but then Tyson's boss started 
yelling at him and he had to get back to work. 
I dug out my last golden drachma and made one more Iris-message. 
"Sally Jackson," I said. "U pper East Side, Manhattan." 
The mist shimmered, and there was my mom at our kitchen table, laughing and holding 
hands with her friend Mr. Blowfish. 
I felt so embarrassed, I was about to wave my hand through the mist and cut the 
connection, but before I could, my mom saw me. 
Her eyes got wide. She let go of Mr. Blow fish's hand real quic k. "Oh, Paul! You know 
what? I left my writing journal in the liv ing room. Would you mind getting it for me?" 
"Sure, Sally. No problem." He left the room, and instantly my mom l eaned toward the Iris-message. "Percy! Are 
you all right?"  "I'm, uh, fine. How's that writing seminar going?" 
She pursed her lips. "It's fine. But that's not important. Tell me what's happened!" 
I filled her in as quickly as I could. She sighe d with relief when she heard that Annabeth 
was safe. 
"I knew you could do it!" she said. "I'm so proud." "Yeah, well, I'd better let you get back to your homework." "Percy, I… Paul and I—" 
"Mom, are you happy?" 
The question seemed to take her by surprise. She thought fo r a moment. "Yes. I really 
am, Percy. Being around him makes me happy." 
"Then it's cool. Seriously. Don't worry a bout me." The funny thing was, I meant it. 
Considering the quest I'd just had, maybe I shoul d have been worried for my mom. I'd seen 
just how mean people could be to each other, like Hercules was to Zoe Nightshade, like Luke 
was to Thalia. I'd met Aphrodite, Goddess of Lo ve, in person, and her powers had scared me 
worse than Ares. But seeing my mother laughing and smiling, after all the years she'd suffered 
with my nasty ex-stepfather, Gabe Uglia no, I couldn't help feeling happy for her. 
"You promise not to call him Mr. Blowfish?" she asked. 
I shrugged. "Well, maybe not to his face, anyway." 
"Sally?" Mr. Blofis called from our living r oom. "You need the green binder or the red 
one?" 
"I'd better go," she told me. "See you for Christmas?" 
"Are you putting blue candy in my stocking?" 
She smiled. "If you're not too old for that." "I'm never too old for candy." 
"I'll see you then." 
She waved her hand across the mist. Her imag e disappeared, and I thought to myself 
that Thalia had been right, so many days ago at Westover Hall: my mom really was pretty 
cool. 
Compared to Mount Olympus, Manhattan was quiet. Friday before Christmas, but it 
was early in the morning, and hardly anyone  was on Fifth Avenue. Argus, the many-eyed  security chief, picked up Annabeth, Grover, an d me at the Empire State Building and ferried 
us back to camp through a light snowstorm. The Long Island Expressway was almost 
deserted. 
As we trudged back up Half-Blood Hill to the pine tree where the Golden Fleece 
glittered, I half expected to se e Thalia there, waiting for us. But she wasn't. She was long gone 
with Artemis and the rest of the Hunters, off on their next adventure. 
Chiron greeted us at the Big House with hot chocolate and toasted cheese sandwiches. 
Grover went off with his satyr friends to spread  the word about our stra nge encounter with the 
magic of Pan. Within an hour, the satyrs were  all running around agit ated, asking where the 
nearest espresso bar was. 
Annabeth and I sat with Chiron and some of the other senior campers—Beckendorf, 
Silena Beauregard, and the Stoll brothers. Even Clarisse from the Ares cabin was there, back 
from her secretive scouting mission. I knew sh e must've had a difficult quest, because she 
didn't even try to pulverize me. She had a new scar on her chin, and he r dirty blond hair had 
been cut short and ragged, like someone had atta cked it with a pair of safety scissors. 
"I got news," she mumbled uneasily. "Bad news." 
"I'll fill you in later," Chiron said with for ced cheerfulness. "The important thing is you 
have prevailed. And you saved Annabeth!" 
Annabeth smiled at me gratefully, which made me look away. 
For some strange reason, I found myself thinking abou t Hoover Dam, and the odd 
mortal girl I'd run into there, Rachel Eli zabeth Dare. I didn't know  why, but her annoying 
comments kept coming back to me. Do you always kill people when they blow their nose ? I 
was only alive because so many people had helped me, even a random mortal girl like that. I'd 
never even explained to her who I was. 
"Luke is alive," I said. "Annabeth was right." Annabeth sat up. "How do you know?" 
I tried not to feel annoyed by her interest. I told her what  my dad had said about the 
Princess Andromeda . 
"Well." Annabeth shifted uncomfortably in her chair. "If the final battle does come 
when Percy is sixteen, at least we have two more years to figure something out." 
I had a feeling that when she said "figur e something out," she meant "get Luke to 
change his ways," which annoyed me even more. 
Chiron's expression was gloomy. Sitting by the fi re in his wheelchair, he looked really 
old. I mean… he was really old, but he usually didn't look it.  "Two years may seem like a long time," he said. "But it is the blink of an eye. I still 
hope you are not the child of the prophecy, Percy. But if you are, then the second Titan war is 
almost upon us. Kronos's first strike will be here." 
"How do you know?" I asked. "Why w ould he care about camp?" 
"Because the gods use heroes as their tools," Chiron said simply. "Destroy the tools, and 
the gods will be crippled. Luke 's forces will come here. Mortal, demigod, monstrous… We 
must be prepared. Clarisse's news may give us a clue as to how they will attack, but—" 
There was a knock on the door, and Nico di A ngelo came huffing into the parlor, his 
cheeks bright red from the cold. 
He was smiling, but he looked around anxiously . "Hey! Where's… where's my sister?" 
Dead silence. I stared at Chiron. I couldn't believe nobody had told him yet. And then I 
realized why. They'd been waiting for us to appear, to tell Nico in person. 
That was the last thing I wanted to do. But I owed it to Bianca. 
"Hey, Nico." I got up from my comfortable chair. "Let's take a walk, okay? We need to 
talk." 
He took the news in silence, which somehow made it worse. I kept  talking, trying to 
explain how it had happened, how Bianca had sacrificed herself to save the quest. But I felt 
like I was only making things worse. 
"She wanted you to have this." I brought out the little god figurine Bianca had found in 
the junkyard. Nico held it in his palm and stared at it. 
We were standing at the dining pavilion, just where we'd last spoken before I went on 
the quest. The wind was bitter cold, even with  the camp's magical w eather protection. Snow 
fell lightly against the marble steps. I figur ed outside the camp borders, there must be a 
blizzard happening. 
"You promised you would pr otect her," Nico said. 
He might as well have stabbed me with a rusty dagger. 
It would've hurt less than reminding me of my promise. 
"Nico," I said. "I tried. But Bianca gave herself up to save th e rest of us. I told her not 
to. But she—" 
"You promised!" 
He glared at me, his eyes rimmed with red. He closed his small fist around the god 
statue.  "I shouldn't have trusted you." His voice broke. "You lied to me. My nightmares were 
right!" 
"Wait. What nightmares?" 
He flung the god statue to the ground. It clat tered across the icy marble. "I hate you!" 
"She might be alive," I said de sperately. "I don't know for sure—" 
"She's dead." He closed his eyes. His whole body trembled with rage. "I should've 
known it earlier. She's in the Fields of Asphodel,  standing before the judges right now, being 
evaluated. I can feel it." 
"What do you mean, you can feel it?" 
Before he could answer, I heard a new sound behind me. A hissing, clattering noise I 
recognized all too well. 
I drew my sword and Nico gasped. I whir led and found myself facing four skeleton 
warriors. They grinned fleshle ss grins and advanced with swords drawn. I wasn't sure how 
they'd made it inside the camp, but it didn' t matter. I'd never get help in time. 
"You're trying to kill me!" Nico scre amed. "You brought thes e… these things?" 
"No! I mean, yes, they followed me, but no! Nico, run. They can't be destroyed." 
"I don't trust you!" The first skeleton charged. I knocked aside its blade, but the other three kept coming. I 
sliced one in half, but immediat ely it began to knit back together. I knocked another's head off 
but it just kept fighting. 
"Run, Nico!" I yelled. "Get help!" 
"No!" He pressed his hands to his ears. 
I couldn't fight four at once, not if they wouldn't die. I sl ashed, whirled, blocked, jabbed, 
but they just kept advancing. It was only a ma tter of seconds before the zombies overpowered 
me. 
"No!" Nico shouted louder. " Go away !" 
The ground rumbled beneath me. The skeletons fr oze. I rolled out of  the way just as a 
crack opened at the feet of the four warriors. The ground ripp ed apart like a snapping mouth. 
Flames erupted from the fissure, and the earth swallowed the skeletons in one loud CRUNCH ! 
Silence. In the place where the skeletons had st ood, a twenty-foot-long sc ar wove across the 
marble floor of the pavilion. Otherwise there was no sign of the warriors.  Awestruck, I looked to Nico. "How did you—" 
"Go away!" he yelled. "I hate  you! I wish you were dead!" 
The ground didn't swallow me  up, but Nico ran down the steps, heading toward the 
woods. I started to follow but sl ipped and fell to th e icy steps. When I got up, I noticed what 
I'd slipped on. 
I picked up the god statue Bianca had retrieved from the junkyard for Nico. The only 
statue he didn't have, she'd said. A last gi ft from his sister. 
I stared at it with dread, because now I understood why the face looked familiar. I'd 
seen it before. 
It was a statue of Hades, Lord of the Dead. 
  Annabeth and Grover helped me search the woods for hours, but there was no sign of 
Nico di Angelo. 
"We have to tell Chiron," A nnabeth said, out of breath. 
"No," I said. 
She and Grover both stared at me. 
"Um," Grover said nervously, "what do you mean… no? 
I was still trying to figure out why I'd said  that, but the words spilled out of me. "We 
can't let anyone know. I don't think a nyone realizes that Nico is a—" 
"A son of Hades," Annabeth said. "Percy, do you have any idea  how serious this is? 
Even Hades broke the oath! This is horrible!" 
"I don't think so," I said. "I don't think Hades broke the oath." 
"What?" 
"He's their dad," I said, "but Bianca and Ni co have been out of commission for a long 
time, since even before World War II." 
"The Lotus Casino!" Grover said, and he told  Annabeth about the conversations we'd 
had with Bianca on the quest. "She and Nico we re stuck there for decades. They were born 
before the oath was made." 
I nodded. 
"But how did they get out?" Annabeth protested.  "I don't know," I admitted. "Bianca said a lawyer came and got them and drove them to 
Westover Hall. I don't know who that could've b een, or why. Maybe it's part of this Great 
Stirring thing. I don't think Nico  understands who he is. But we  can't go telling anyone. Not 
even Chiron. If the Olympians find out—" 
"It might start them fighting among each other again," Annabeth said. "That's the last 
thing we need." 
Grover looked worried. "But you can't hide  things from the gods. Not forever." 
"I don't need forever," I said. "Jus t two years. Until I'm sixteen." 
Annabeth paled. "But, Percy, this means the prophecy might not be about you. It might 
be about Nico.We have to—" 
"No," I said. "I choose the proph ecy. It will be about me." 
"Why are you saying that?" she cried. "You want to be responsible for the whole 
world?" 
It was the last thing I wante d, but I didn't say that. I knew I had to step up and claim it. 
"I can't let Nico be in any mo re danger," I said. "I owe that much to his sister. I… let 
them both down. I'm not going to let that poor kid suffer any more." 
"The poor kid who hates you and wants to  see you dead," Grover reminded me. 
"Maybe we can find him," I said. "We can convince him it's okay, hide him someplace 
safe." 
Annabeth shivered. "If L uke gets hold of him—" 
"Luke won't," I said. "I'll make sure he's got  other things to worry about. Namely, me." 
I wasn't sure Chiron believed the story Annabe th and I told him. I think he could tell I 
was holding something back about Nico's disa ppearance, but in the end, he accepted it. 
Unfortunately, Nico wasn't the first half-blood to disappear. 
"So young," Chiron sighed, his hand s on the rail of the front porch. "Alas, I hope he was 
eaten by monsters. Much better than bei ng recruited into the Titans' army." 
That idea made me really uneasy. I almost  changed my mind about telling Chiron, but I 
didn't. 
"You really think the first att ack will be here?" I asked. 
Chiron stared at the snow falling on the hi lls. I could see smoke from the dragon 
guardian at the pine tree, the glitter of the distant Fleece.  "It will not be until summer, at least," Ch iron said. This winter will be hard… the 
hardest for many centuries. It's be st that you go home to the city, Percy; try to keep your mind 
on school. And rest. You will need rest." 
I looked at Annabet h. "What about you?" 
Her cheeks flushed. "I'm going to try San Fran cisco after all. Maybe  I can keep an eye 
on Mount Tam, make sure the Titans don't try anything else." 
"You'll send an Iris-message if anything goes wrong?" 
She nodded. "But I think Chiron's right. It won't be until the summer. Luke will need 
time to regain his strength." 
I didn't like the idea of waiting. Then again, ne xt August I would be turning fifteen. So 
close to sixteen I didn't want to think about it. 
"All right," I said. "Just take care of your self. And no crazy stun ts in the Sopwith 
Camel." 
She smiled tentatively. "Deal. And, Percy—" Whatever she was going to say was interrupted  by Grover, who stumbled out of the Big 
House, tripping over tin cans. His face was ha ggard and pale, like he'd seen a specter. 
"He spoke.'" Grover cried. 
"Calm down, my young satyr, " Chiron said, frowning. "What is the matter?" 
"I… I was playing music in the parlor," he  stammered, "and drinking coffee. Lots and 
lots of coffee! And he spoke in my mind!" 
"Who?" Annabeth demanded. 
"Pan!" Grover wailed. "The Lord  of the Wild himself. I hear d him! I have to… I have to 
find a suitcase." 
"Whoa, whoa, whoa," I said. "What did he say?" Grover stared at me. "Just three words. He said, ' I await you...'"  
